In this paper, we study the problem of balancing staffing and switching costs in a service center with multiple types of customers and time-dependent service demand. We assume that servers are flexible and can be switched from serving one type of customers to another. The objective is to minimize the total staffing and switching costs subject to service level constraints. Column generation heuristics are developed based on a formulation from the perspective of servers. Computational experiments show that the heuristics perform well. Furthermore, an extension of the model is presented for the situation where there is a penalty if some of the service requests are not covered (satisfied). Keywords Workforce planning ; Column generation 1. Introduction In a recent paper by Green et al. (2003) , they studied the problem of determining staff levels for call centers with time-dependent customer calls. Similar to most of the models developed for call centers, it is assumed that all service requests and servers are identical. However, as they pointed out at the end of their paper, this is not true in modern call centers. Naturally, a call center receives many types of service requests. For example, consider a call center at a credit card company where both business customers and individual customers call in for service. Individual customers typically open a new account or resolve problems with an existing account. For those customers with an existing account, they are likely to be calling to: (a) rectify mistakes in their statements; (b) report a stolen card; (c) increase their credit limit; or (d) close their account. Furthermore, due to the fierce business competition, companies are offering customers with more and more choices ( Pine, 1993 ). Therefore, the service requests at a service center are usually divided into groups according to their nature and importance. The demand of each group is time-dependent and has its own distinct pattern. For example, a group of business customer requests will likely have a higher demand during business hours, whereas that of individual customer requests will likely peak during evening hours. A special skill is required to serve a specific group of requests. Usually, a service center have both specialized and flexible servers (some discussions on the benefits of cross-utilization of servers can be found in McCune, 1994  and  Brusco et al., 1998 ). Each group of service requests is served by a pool of qualified servers. In this paper, we consider service centers that have the following features: • Multiple groups: the service center provides service to multiple service requests and the requests are divided into more than one group. • Time-dependent demand: by discretizing demand we allow consideration of time-dependent service requests. • Demand cannot be rescheduled by the service center to be served at a less busy time. • The service cannot be stocked for inventory: if there is no service request, the worker/machine is idle. We cannot save the idle time of the worker/machine for a busy time later. • Flexible worker/machine: the worker/machine can serve multiple groups of service requests at different service rate. Other examples of service centers that share the above features are hospitals (assigning nurses to different wards), police departments (assigning police officers to different tasks). To have a consistent notation, we use server to represent either the people who provide service to customers (the customer service representative in a call center, the nurse in a hospital, the police officer in a police station, etc.) or the machines that process the service requests. We use staffing cost to represent the hiring cost for workers or the installation/operation cost for machines. Due to the above features, it is unrealistic to independently assign servers to each group to meet peak demand because it leads to costly server idle time during low demand periods. An efficient service center staffing could take into account the different demand patterns of each group and accordingly switch the servers from serving one group to another. When a server switches from serving one group to another, a switching cost (for example, the set-up cost for machines, the transfer cost for workers) may be induced (see Koole, 1997 , Kitaev and Serfozo, 1999  and  Park and Bobrowski, 1989 ). When the number of servers is small, more switches and therefore high total switching cost are required. For example, consider a service center with three groups, three periods and (for simplicity) identical servers. The minimum number of servers required is listed in Table 1 . Suppose the staffing cost per server is 10 and the switching cost per switch is 6. The minimum number of servers needed are (7 + 2 + 5=) 14 and the maximum number of server needed are (7 + 6 + 7=) 20. The staffing cost and switching cost corresponding to the given number of server are listed Table 2 . From the table, we can see that when the number of servers is small, the total switching cost is high and when the number of servers is large, the total staffing cost is high. The minimal total cost is reached at 17. Table 1. Period 1 Period 2 Period 3 Group 1 7 3 6 Group 2 2 6 1 Group 3 5 4 7 Full-size table Costs for the example In this paper, we study the problem of balancing the staffing and switching costs for cross-trained servers in a service center with multiple groups of time-dependent service demands. The objective is to minimize the total staffing and switching costs subject to service level constraints.