Independent Job Scheduling by Fuzzy C-Mean Clustering and an Ant Optimization Algorithm in a Computation Grid. Source: IAENG International Journal of Computer Science . Jun2010, Vol. 37 Issue 2, p136-145. 10p. 1 Diagram, 6 Charts, 13 Graphs. Author(s): Helmy, Tarek; Rasheed, Zeehasham Abstract: Grid computing is gaining more significance in the high-performance computing world. This concept leads to the discovery of solutions for complicated problems regarding the diversity of available resources among different jobs in the Grid. However, the major problem is the optimal job scheduling for heterogeneous resources, in which each job needs to be allocated to a proper grid's node with the appropriate resources. An important challenge is to solve optimally the scheduling problem, because the capability and availability of resources vary dynamically and the complexity of scheduling increases with the size of the grid. This paper, therefore, presents a framework which combines the Fuzzy C-Mean clustering with an Ant Colony Optimization (ACO) algorithm to improve the scheduling decision when the grid is heterogeneous. In the proposed model, the Fuzzy C-Mean algorithm classifies the jobs into appropriate classes, and the ACO algorithm maps the jobs to the appropriate resources. The ACO is characterized by ant-like mobile agents that cooperate and stochastically explore a network, iteratively building solutions based on their own memory and on the traces (pheromone levels) left by other agents. The simulation is done by using historical information on jobs in a grid. The experimental results show that the proposed algorithm can allocate jobs more efficiently and more effectively than the traditional algorithms for scheduling policies. Copyright of IAENG International Journal of Computer Science is the property of Newswood Limited and its content may not be copied or emailed to multiple sites or posted to a listserv without the copyright holder's express written permission. However, users may print, download, or email articles for individual use. This abstract may be abridged. No warranty is given about the accuracy of the copy. Users should refer to the original published version of the material for the full abstract. For access to this entire article and additional high quality information, please check with your college/university library, local public library, or affiliated institution. Important User Information: Remote access to EBSCO's databases is permitted to patrons of subscribing institutions accessing from remote locations for personal, non-commercial use. However, remote access to EBSCO's databases from non-subscribing institutions is not allowed if the purpose of the use is for commercial gain through cost reduction or avoidance for a non-subscribing institution. Privacy Policy Terms of Use Copyright © 2015 EBSCO Industries, Inc. All rights reserved.