@MISC{Abdi_twolevel,     author = {Somayeh Abdi and Somayeh Mohamadi},     title = {TWO LEVEL JOB SCHEDULING AND DATA REPLICATION IN DATA GRID},     year = {} } Data Grid environment is a geographically distributed that deal with date-intensive application in scientific and enterprise computing. In data-intensive applications data transfer is a primary cause of job execution delay. Data access time depends on bandwidth, especially when hierarchy of bandwidth appears in network. Effective job scheduling can reduce data transfer time by considering hierarchy of bandwidth and also dispatching a job to where the needed data are present. Additionally, replication of data from primary repositories to other locations can be an important optimization step to reduce the frequency of remote data access. Objective of dynamic replica strategies is reducing file access time which leads to reducing job runtime. In this paper we develop a job scheduling policy, called TLSS (Two level Scheduling strategy), and a dynamic data replication strategy, called TLRS (Two level Replication Strategy), to improve the data access efficiencies in a cluster grid. We study our approach and evaluate it through simulation. The results show that combination of TLSS and TLRS has improved 17 % over other combinations. ...screte event simulation toolkit provides Java classes that represent entities essential for application, resource modelling, scheduling of jobs to resources, and their execution along with management =-=[9]-=-. Its Java-based design makes it portable and available on all computational platforms. The components of Gridsim are as follow and also depicted in Figure 3. Figure 3. Simulator architecture Resource... 165 Decoupling Computation and Data Scheduling in Distributed Data-Intensive Applications - Ranganathan, Foster - 2002 (Show Context) ...and Fast Spread when compared to traditional strategies. Ranganathan and Foster also propose a variety of techniques to intelligently replicate data across sites and assign jobs to sites in data grid =-=[21]-=-. They have conducted a study of the performances of various scheduling algorithms by using simulator. A scheduler selects a remote site to dispatch a job based on one of the four algorithms: (1) JobR... 128 Identifying dynamic replication strategies for a high performance data Grid and Grid Computing - Ranganathan, Foster (Show Context) ...f the data until the scheduling time. The authors also use an objective function that assumes infinite availability of storage for all data objects which is infeasible in a realistic grid setting. In =-=[19,20]-=-, Ranganathan and Foster present six different replica strategies: (1) No replication or caching, (2) Best Client: a replica is created at the best client that has the largest number of requests for t... 40 Simulation of dynamic Grid replication strategies in OptorSim - Bell, Cameron, et al. - 2002 30 An evaluation of the close-to-files processor and data co-allocation policy in multiclusters - Mohamed, Epema - 2004 24 Towards an Economy-Based Optimisation of File Access and Replication on a Data grid - Carman, Zini, et al. 20 Rajkumar Buyya, and Muthucumaru Maheswaran, “A Taxonomy and survey of Grid Resource Management Systems for Distributed Computing”, Software: Practice and Experience (SPE) journal - Krauter - 2001 (Show Context) Citation Context ... property. This category is used for job scheduling and replication. Then a job is allocated to a site which has the file in the required category, this leads to reduce the cost for file transfer. In =-=[8]-=- a Genetic Algorithm based co-scheduling of data and jobs of independent nature was proposed; the GA is executed to converge to a schedule by looking at the jobs in the scheduler queue as well as the ... 20 Design and evaluation of dynamic replication strategies for a high performance data grid - Ranganathan, Foster (Show Context) Citation Context ...f the data until the scheduling time. The authors also use an objective function that assumes infinite availability of storage for all data objects which is infeasible in a realistic grid setting. In =-=[19,20]-=-, Ranganathan and Foster present six different replica strategies: (1) No replication or caching, (2) Best Client: a replica is created at the best client that has the largest number of requests for t... 19 Advanced Replica Management with Reptor - Kunszt, Laure, et al. 13 Evolving Toward the Perfect Schedule: Co-scheduling Job Assignments and Data Replication in Wide-Area Systems Using a Genetic Algorithm - Phan, Ranganathan, et al. - 2004 (Show Context) Citation Context ...ented and an algorithm similar to [5], along with scheduling is proposed. For replicating a file, first computes the total transfer time, then it selects the best node with shortest transfer time. In =-=[7]-=- authors introduce dynamic replication placement (RP) that categorizes the data based on their property. This category is used for job scheduling and replication. Then a job is allocated to a site whi... 12 Optorsim: a Simulation Tool for Scheduling and Replica Optimization in Data Grids - Cameron, Millar, et al. - 2004 7 scheduling and data replication on data grids - Chang, Chang, et al. (Show Context) Citation Context ...ernational Journal of Grid Computing & Applications (IJGCA) Vol.1, No.1, September 2010 method, and replicates the file. It assumes that master site always has a safe copy of file before deleting. In =-=[5]-=-, an algorithm for a two-level hierarchical structure based on internet hierarchy (BHR) has been introduced which only considers dynamic replication and does not consider scheduling. Nodes in the firs... 4 Xueyan Tang, Chai-Kiat Yeo - The Impact of Data Replication on Job Scheduling Performance - Tang, Lee (Show Context) Citation Context ... Grid may be up to petabytes in the near future. Data-intensive jobs are one major kind of jobs in data grid, and their scheduling strategies are regarded as one of the most important research fields =-=[2]-=-. Size of data that needs to be accessed on the Data Grid is in terabytes or petabytes in the near future that leads to many challenges in Data Grid. One of the aspects that must be considered is how ... 4 Young-Bae Ko: Dynamic Grid Replication Strategy based on Internet Hierarchy - Park, Kim (Show Context) Citation Context ...data transfer time is the primary cause of job execution delay. To mitigate the effect of such problems and facilitate efficient system performance, replication strategies and algorithms are employed =-=[4]-=-. The replication mechanism determines which file should be replicated, when to create new replicas and where the new replicas should be placed. Replication methods can be classified as static and dyn... 4 Sang Boem Lim2: Combination of Replication and Scheduling - Dang - 2007 (Show Context) Citation Context ...wise it tries to make available space by deleting files using LRU (Least Recently Used) method, and replicates the file. It assumes that master site always has a safe copy of file before deleting. In =-=[6]-=-, a structure with few networks connected via internet has been presented and an algorithm similar to [5], along with scheduling is proposed. For replicating a file, first computes the total transfer ... 4 Data replication strategies in grid environments - Deelman, Lamehamedi, et al. - 2002 3 Huifang Ji, “scheduling algorithm with potential behaviors - Jiang - 2008 (Show Context) Citation Context ...chitecture that allow connect a collection of hundreds of geographically distributed computers and storage resources located in different part of the world to facilitate sharing of data and resources =-=[1]-=-. Size of data that needs to be accessed on the Data Grid may be up to petabytes in the near future. Data-intensive jobs are one major kind of jobs in data grid, and their scheduling strategies are re... 3 Mazari, “Performance Enhancement through Hybrid Replication and Genetic Algorithm Co-Scheduling - Elghirani, Subrata, et al. - 2006 (Show Context) Citation Context ...mpact of replication mechanism to the scheduling performance [1]. In data-intensive applications, the locations of data required by the job impact the Grid scheduling decision and performance greatly =-=[3]-=-. As a data grid represents a distributed storage solution, its performance is dictated by the access latency and bandwidth of the underlying communication network. In large-scale data-intensive appli...