  This study considers the job scheduling problem of minimizing the weighted waiting time variance (WWTV) of jobs. It is an extension of WTV minimization problems in which we schedule a batch of n jobs, for servicing on a single resource, in such a way that the variance of their waiting times is minimized. WWTV minimization finds its applications for job scheduling in manufacturing systems with earliness and tardiness (E/T) penalties, in computer and networks systems for the stabilized QoS, and in other fields where it is desirable to minimize WWTV of jobs with different weights for priorities. We formulate a WWTV problem as an integer programming problem, prove the V-shape property for agreeably weighted WWTV problems and the nondelay property for general WWTV problems, and discover the strong V-Shape tendency of the optimal job sequences for this problem. Two job scheduling algorithms, Weighted Verified Spiral (WVS) and Weighted Simplified Spiral (WSS), are developed for the WWTV problems. Numerical testing shows that WVS and WSS significantly outperform existing WWTV algorithms. Keywords Weighted waiting time variance (WWTV) ; Quality of service (QoS) ; Just-in-time (JIT) ; Job scheduling 1. Introduction The single machine weighted waiting time variance (WWTV) minimization problem, denoting by 1∥ WWTV , is to schedule the jobs in a batch on a single machine so as to minimize the weighted waiting time variance of the jobs as follows: equation ( 1 ) min λ ∈ Π WWTV = 1 n - 1 ∑ i = 1 n v i ( λ ) [ W i ( λ ) - W ¯ ( λ ) ] 2 where Π is the set of all the permutations of the n jobs, v i ( λ ) is the weight of the job on position i to indicate its priority, W i ( λ ) is the waiting time of the job on position i   and W ¯ ( λ ) is the weighted average waiting time of the jobs for a given sequence λ . A greater value of v i means a higher priority. It is an extension of the WTV problem in which jobs are considered to have the same weight ( Merten and Muller, 1972  and  Ye et al., 2006 ). WWTV minimization has many applications in different fields. WWTV problems are closely related to weighted common due date problems. A weighted common due date problem can be modeled as finding an optimal common due date, d   , to minimize the mean squared deviation (MSD), ∑v i (W i -d) 2 ∑ v i ( W i - d ) 2 . It can be obtained as ( ∑ v i ∗ W i ∗ ) / ∑ v i ∗ , where v i ∗ and W i ∗ are the weight and waiting time of the jobs in the optimal WWTV sequence, respectively, since MSD is the second moment about d . The connection between the WWTV minimization problems and the weighted common due date problems suggests the applicability of putting WWTV minimization for scheduling problems with earliness and tardiness (E/T) penalties in manufacturing systems ( Baker and Scudder, 1990 , Cheng and Gupta, 1989  and  Verma and Dessouky, 1998 ). This is an extension of the relationship between the WTV problem and common due date problem or mean squared deviation (MSD) problem ( Bagchi et al., 1987 , Cheng and Gupta, 1989 , Cheng and Kovalyov, 1996 , Cheng et al., 2002  and  Panwalker et al., 1982 ). It is shown that the CTV problem is equivalent to the unconstrained version of the mean squared deviation minimization problem ( Bagchi et al., 1987 ). In addition to applications to job scheduling for E/T minimization in manufacturing systems, WWTV is in connection with providing stabilized Quality of Service (QoS) in computers and networks ( Ye et al., 2006 ). For instance, the data packets from WTV-sensitive applications (audio or video players) should have higher priorities of data transmission against other data packets (emailing or web browsing) arriving at a router. It is desirable to minimize the weighted WTV of the data packets to stabilize the router so that higher priority data packets get more consistent service performance or stable QoS. WWTV minimization may also find application in other service facilities where it is desirable to serve the jobs with different weights in stability.