Password: This paper investigates integrated flexible job shop problem (FJSP) with preventive maintenance (PM) activities under the multi-objective optimization approaches. Finding compromise solutions between the production objectives and maintenance ones is under consideration. In order to carry out the maintenance activities, reliability models are employed. This paper attempts to simultaneously optimize two objectives: the minimization of the makespan for the production part and the minimization of the system unavailability for the maintenance part. For doing it so, two decisions are taken at the same time: finding the appropriate assignment of n jobs on m machines in order to minimize the makespan and deciding when to execute the PM activities in order to minimize the system unavailability. Both the maintenance activity numbers and maintenance intervals are not fixed in advance. Four multi-objective optimization methods are compared to find the Pareto-optimal front in the flexible job-shop problem case. Promising the obtained results, a benchmark with a large number of test instances (more than 4800) and meticulous care is employed. Research highlights ► Integrated flexible job-shop and preventive maintenance is probed in this study. ► Makespan as an objective for production part and reliability as an objective for maintenance part are optimized simultaneously. ► A mathematic model and a solving method are introduced in this paper and results are compared carefully. Keywords Scheduling ; Flexible job shop ; Preventive maintenance ; Evolutionary genetic algorithm ; Reliability ; Multi-objective optimization ; Makespan ; Unavailability 1. Introduction Production plans and maintenance activities are two major issues in manufacturing industries. Production scheduling deals with finding the appropriate assignment of jobs on machines in order to obtain especial objectives by considering the existing constrains. Numerous prior studies are dedicated to solve these problems in different workshops (single machine, parallel machine, flow shop, job shop, and open shop and hybrid systems). Also, most of the productions scheduling systems are NP-hard ( Garey & Johnson, 1979 ). In the production scheduling point of view, most literatures assumed that machines are always available during the planning time horizon. However, in real manufacturing systems, this assumption is unreasonable because, some unavailability periods, like maintenance activities, cause the machines not to be available for processing ( Schmidt, 2000 ). For tackling this problem, several researchers have provoked recently to ponder unavailability periods like maintenance activities in their studies. The most important affair in their studies is to develop an appropriate maintenance planning to optimize different objectives of the system ( Berrichi, Amodeo, Yalaoui, Châtelet, & Mezghiche, 2008 ). In the most of the real manufacturing system, production scheduling and maintenance activities are employed separately but there are a strict interdependent between them ( Berrichi et al., 2008 ). In recent decades, the relationship between production and maintenance has been observed as conflict in management decision. This conflict has been probed by several recent studies ( Weinstein & Chung, 1999 ). Nonetheless, if the production plan does not observe the expected period of preventive maintenance (PM), the interruptions coming from the PM interference or machine breakdown may result in an unsatisfied demand. Evading this conflict, an integrated multi-objective model with system availability for the PM aspects is considered in this paper. In fact, the multi-objective models allow the decision maker to have compromise solution meeting at best two criteria: one related to PM activities and another to production plan. The paper is organized as follows. Section 2 presents the literature review of problem studied. Section 3 describes the preventive maintenance policies, availability models and proposed mathematical model. Solving methods are discussed in Section 4 . Section 5 presents the test problems and obtained results. Finally, Section 6 is devoted to conclusions and recommendation for future studies. 2. Literature review Recently, extensive surveys are dedicated to resolve production-scheduling and PM problems. In production-scheduling point of view, Jain and Meeran, 1999  and  Pinedo, 2002 reviewed many studies. Minimization of the completion time of jobs, mean flow time, processing cost and etc., were considered as the objectives of production-scheduling problems. Also, McCall (1965) , Sherif and Smith, 1981  and  Wang, 2002 have recalled the comprehensive surveys of models for PM affairs. Aghezzaf, Jamali, and Ait-Kadi (2007) studied an integrated production-scheduling and periodic PM problem. Qi, Chen, and Tu (1999) and Sortrakul, Nachtmann, and Cassady (2005) considered a single-machine scheduling problem integrated with PM activities where the objective is to minimize total completion time of jobs. Gharbi and Kenne (2005) considered the production and PM control problem for a multi-machine manufacturing system. Their objective was finding an optimal production and PM rate where the total costs of inventory, repair, and PM is minimized. An analytical model for the joint determination of age-dependent production planning and age-dependent PM is introduced in Kenne, Gharbi, and Beit (2007) . They considered to minimize an overall cost function. In the survey carried out by Cassady and Kutanoglu (2003) , determining production scheduling and PM planning was probed simultaneously. Cassady and Kutanoglu (2005) proposed an integrated model for minimizing the total expected weighted completion time of jobs. The scheduling problem with limited machine availability in greater details for different constrains and machine environments is considered by Schmidt (2000) . Kaabi, Varnier, and Zerhouni (2003) have studied the single machine and permutation flow-shop case respectively. In their study, maintenance periods are fulfilled during the predefined intervals. Ruiz, Garcı´a-Diaz, and Maroto (2007) introduced an integrated method for permutation flow-shop problem in order to minimize the makespan. Determining the maintenance periods to keep a minimum level of reliability during the scheduling horizon, they have manipulated reliability models. Berrichi et al. (2008) proposed a model for integrated PM and parallel machine scheduling. They used reliability model to determine the maintenance intervals which deal with a strategy named rational strategy. This paper manipulates a strategy to insert PM activities introduced by Berrichi et al. (2008) and named rational strategy (in opposition to the strategy proposed in Ruiz et al. (2007) called conservative strategy) which makes it possible to delay or to advance a maintenance task. To our knowledge, there is no study related to the integrated approach in the flexible job-shop scheduling and PM activities, under the machine unavailability as a performance criterion of the production system. 3. Modeling of the integrated PM and FJSP 3.1. Production, preventive maintenance and availability When it comes to production problem, we will ponder flexible job-shop problem (FJSP) and the makspan as performance measure. In our study, jobs are all available at the beginning of the time horizon and preemption is not allowed. In the FJSP, two decisions have to be made: (1) assigning jobs on machines and (2) determining the sequence of jobs on each machine. This problem is known to be NP-hard ( Pinedo & Chao, 1999 ). Numerous surveys are allotted to carry out FJSP but even small cases of those cannot be solved by exact algorithms. Pinedo (2002) acclaimed that, some exact algorithms have been developed but they are not applicable for cases with more than 20 jobs and 10 machines. Indeed, no approximation algorithms are known for FJSP solution with a guaranteed distance from the optimal solution ( Pezzella, Morganti, & Ciaschetti, 2008 ). When it comes to maintenance, we have considered different policies introduced by recent surveys such as: McCall, 1965 , Pierskalla and Voelker, 1976 , Cassady and Kutanoglu, 2003 , Sherif and Smith, 1981  and  Ruiz et al., 2007 . Two simple and easily extendable PM policies introduced in some prior studies are used by Naderi, Zandieh, and Fatemi Ghomi (2008) . In the first policy, the maintenance activities are come about at predefined fixed time interval ( T FPM ). In addition, the preemption of jobs is not allowed, so those that have overlap with maintenance activities must be postponed.