Password: In this paper, by considering the imprecise or fuzzy nature of the data in real-world problems, job shop scheduling with fuzzy processing time and fuzzy duedate is introduced. On the basis of the agreement index of fuzzy duedate and fuzzy completion time, multiobjective fuzzy job shop scheduling problems are formulated as three-objective ones which not only maximize the minimum agreement index but also maximize the average agreement index and minimize the maximum fuzzy completion time. Having elicited the linear membership functions for the fuzzy goals of the decision maker, we adopt the fuzzy decision of Bellman and Zadeh. By incorporating the concept of similarity among individuals into the genetic algorithms using the Gannt chart, a genetic algorithm which is suitable for solving the formulated problems are proposed. As illustrative numerical examples, both 6×6 and 10×10 three-objective job shop scheduling problems with fuzzy duedate and fuzzy processing time are considered, and the feasibility and effectiveness of the proposed method are demonstrated by comparing with the simulated annealing method. Keywords Job shop scheduling ; Fuzzy duedate ; Fuzzy processing time ; Fuzzy goals ; Fuzzy completion time ; Agreement index ; Genetic algorithms 1. Introduction The job shop scheduling problem (JSSP) 6 , 7  and  9 has been well-known as one of the hardest combinatorial optimization problems and numerous exact and heuristic algorithms have been proposed [2] . One of the first attempts to approach a simple job shop scheduling problem through the application of genetic algorithms (GAs) [12] can be seen in the research of Davis [11] in 1985. Since then, a significant number of successful applications of GAs to job shop scheduling problems have been appearing 8 , 18 , 22 , 10 , 3 , 25 , 19 , 26 , 28  and  17 . Naturally, in these job shop scheduling problems, various factors, such as processing time, duedate and so forth, have precisely been fixed at some crisp values. However, when formulating job shop scheduling problems which closely describe and represent the real-world problems, various factors involved in the problems are often only imprecisely or ambiguously known to the analyst. This is particularly true in the real-world situations when human-centered factors are incorporated into the problems. In such situations, it may be more appropriate to consider fuzzy processing time due to man-made factors and fuzzy duedate tolerating a certain amount of delay in the duedate 13 , 27  and  21 . To be more specific, considering a number of man-made factors that exist in operations and planning and other arrangements is also a part of operations, fuzziness in processing times undeniably exists. Concerning duedate, we can also imagine many situations where `it is desirable in principle to strictly satisfy the duedate, a certain amount of delay may be tolerated with longer delay tends to be lower evaluations'. Recently, in order to reflect such situations, a mathematical programming approach to a single machine scheduling problem with fuzzy precedence relation [13] , job shop scheduling with fuzzy processing time using GAs [27] and job shop scheduling with both fuzzy processing time and fuzzy duedate through GAs incorporating the concept of similarity among individuals 23  and  24 have been proposed. Unfortunately, however, in these fuzzy job scheduling problems (FJSSPs), only a single objective function is considered and extensions to multiobjective job scheduling problems are desired for reflecting real-world situations more adequately. Under these circumstances, in this paper, on the basis of the agreement index of fuzzy duedate and fuzzy completion time, we formulate multiobjective job shop scheduling problems with fuzzy duedate and fuzzy processing time as three-objective ones which not only maximize the minimum agreement index but also maximize the average agreement index and minimize the maximum fuzzy completion time. Moreover, by considering the imprecise nature of human judgements, we assume that the decision maker may have a fuzzy goal for each of the objective functions. After eliciting the linear membership functions through the interaction with the decision maker, we adopt the fuzzy decision of Bellman and Zadeh or minimum-operator [4] for combining them. Then by incorporating the concept of similarity among individuals into the GAs using the Gannt chart [28] , a GA which is suitable for solving the formulated problems are proposed. As illustrative numerical examples, we consider both 6×6 and 10×10 three-objective job shop scheduling problems with fuzzy duedate and fuzzy processing time, and demonstrate the feasibility and effectiveness of the proposed method by comparing with the simulated annealing method. 2. Job shop scheduling problems with fuzzy processing time and fuzzy duedate In general, an n × m job shop scheduling problem is formulated as follows. Let n jobs J i ( i =1,2,…, n ) be processed on m machines M r ( r =1,2,…, m ), and let the operations of job J i on machine M r be O i , j , r , where j ∈{1,2,…, m } shows the position of the operation in the technological sequence of the jobs. In other words, O i , j , r expresses the j th operation of job J i processed on machine r . It is assumed here that only one operation can be processed on each machine at a time, and that each operation cannot be commenced until the processing is completed, if the precedent operation is still being processed. In contrast to the n × m job shop scheduling problems (JSSPs), in this paper, job shop scheduling problems incorporating fuzzy processing time and fuzzy duedate are formulated as fuzzy job shop scheduling problems (FJSSPs). In FJSSPs considered in this paper, the fuzzy processing time of operation O i , j , r is represented by a triangular fuzzy number (TFN) and denoted by a triplet ( a i , j , r 1 , a i , j , r 2 , a i , j , r 3 ) as shown in Fig. 1 (a). As shown in Fig. 1 (b), the fuzzy duedate is represented by the degree of satisfaction with respect to the job completion time, and denoted by a doublet ( d i 1 , d i 2 ). Fig. 1. 