Password: This paper studies the parallel machines bi-criteria scheduling problem (PMBSP) in a deteriorating system. Sequencing and scheduling problems (SSP) have seldom considered the two phenomena concurrently. This paper discusses the parallel machines scheduling problem with the effects of machine and job deterioration. By the machine deterioration effect, we mean that each machine deteriorates at a different rate. This deterioration is considered in terms of cost which depends on the production rate, the machine’s operating characteristics and the kind of work done by each machine. Moreover, job processing times are increasing functions of their starting times and follow a simple linear deterioration. The objective functions are minimizing total tardiness and machine deteriorating cost. The problem of total tardiness on identical parallel machines is NP-hard, thus the problem with machine deteriorating cost as an additional term is also NP-hard. We propose the LP-metric method to show the importance of our proposed multi-objective problem. A metaheuristic algorithm is developed to locate optimal or near optimal solutions based on a Tabu search mechanism. Numerical examples are presented to show the efficiency of this model. Keywords Scheduling and sequencing ; Parallel machines ; Machine deterioration ; Job deterioration ; Multi-objectives integer programming 1. Introduction In most machine scheduling problems with different objective functions, it is assumed that machines are available all the time. This assumption is not reasonable in reality because there are many situations such as periodical repair, preventive maintenance, or accidental breakdown in which machines may not be available. In a real world application, each machine works with variable efficiency and depreciates because of usage and age at a random rate. On the other hand, jobs also may deteriorate, while waiting to be processed. By the effect of job deterioration, we mean that job processing times are defined by a function of their starting times and positions in the sequence. For example, a drop in the temperature of an ingot, while waiting to enter the rolling machine, requires the ingot to be reheated before rolling or the time required to control a fire will be increased, if there is a delay in the fire-fighting efforts. Scheduling in this manner is known as the deteriorating job scheduling problem . It was first introduced by Browne and Yechiali [1] . Since then, deteriorating job scheduling problems have been widely discussed. Ruat et al. [2] considered the problem of scheduling a given number of jobs on a single machine with time deteriorating job values and capacity constraints while the objective function is to maximize total revenue. Gawiejnowicz et al. [3] considered a single machine time-dependent scheduling problem. They introduced two scenarios for a given sequence of job deterioration and formulated a greedy polynomial time approximation algorithm for each scenario. Wang [4] introduced the single-machine scheduling problem with the effects of learning and deterioration. He showed that even in presence of the learning effect and deteriorating jobs, the single-machine makespan and sum of completion times minimization problems remain polynomially solvable by the SPT rule. Xu et al. [5] investigated a parallel machine scheduling problem with almost periodic maintenance activities in which they proposed a 2 T ′/ T -approximation algorithm to solve the P m , MS [ T ,  T ′]∥ C max problem. Oron [6] considered a single machine scheduling problem with simple linear deterioration. He proved several properties on the structure of an optimal schedule, and introduces two efficient heuristics for solving the problem. Wang and Xia [7] considered the scheduling problems under decreasing linear deterioration. They proved that an optimal schedule can be obtained by Johnson’s rule for the two-machine flowshop scheduling problem to minimize the makespan. Jeng and Lin [8] studied a scheduling problem of minimizing the total completion time on a single machine where the processing time of a job is a step function of its starting time and a due date that is common to all jobs. They showed that this problem is NP-hard. They developed a lower bound and two elimination rules to design a branch-and-bound algorithm to derive optimal solutions from a practical aspect. Unlike job deterioration, there are only a few studies that have considered machine deterioration. Amia and Nagraj [9] considered machine deterioration as a function of job’s engineering-determined parameters such as the job feed rate, drilling or cutting speed, chip removal rate, cooling efficiency for the type of cut, etc. They state that basically, each job, based on the complexity and speed of its operations, may be viewed as placing a certain amount of “stress” on the machine and the machine breaks down when the total stress exceeds the threshold value. They also proved that job sequencing has an important role in minimizing the expected makespan in a deteriorating flexible machine when it processes multiple jobs, each contributing to machine deterioration at a different rate. Lam and Yeh [10] stated that a machine may continuously deteriorate due to cumulative wear, fatigue, corrosion and so on. Due to the inevitable deterioration, manufacturing systems may not remain in a condition in which goods of acceptable quality can be produced. They investigated five maintenance policies for systems whose degrees of deterioration can be identified only through inspection. Their objective is to determine an optimal inspection such that the expected long run cost rate is minimized. Grall et al. [11] considered a system subject to a random deterioration and monitored through perfect inspection. When the system condition exceeds its failure level L , it passes into its failed state and a corrective replacement is immediately carried out. One of the familiar objective functions in parallel machine scheduling is the minimizing of weighted tardiness penalties. Bilge et al. [12] used a Tabu search method to schedule parallel machines with total weighted tardiness penalties. YI and Wang [13] introduced a model for scheduling grouped jobs on identical parallel machines. In their model a set-up time is incurred when one-machine changes from processing one type of component to a different type of component. The objective function here is to minimize the total earliness–tardiness penalties. Radhakrishnan et al. [14] emphasized the just-in-time (JIT) production philosophy, and used simulated annealing for parallel machine scheduling with earliness–tardiness penalties and sequence dependant set-up times (PETNDDSP). Lee et al. [15] proposed an algorithm to minimize the number of tardy jobs. Park et al. [16] investigated the problem of scheduling jobs on identical parallel machines to minimize the sum of weighted tardiness. They suggested an extension of the ATS (Apparent Tardiness cost with Setup) rule. While the body of literature in this area is huge, to the best of our knowledge there is not any paper that addresses the objective functions which are considered in this paper. The most similar study to our work belongs to Cao et al. [17] . They suggested a model to minimize the sum of machine holding cost and job tardiness cost without considering the effect of job deterioration. They have showed that the problem is NP-hard and have suggested a heuristic algorithm to locate optimal or near optimal solutions based on a Tabu search to control the search process in the solution’s neighborhood for jobs scheduled on specific machines. In this paper, the parallel machine scheduling problem and the effect of deterioration are considered concurrently. This deterioration is considered in terms of cost which is a function of production rate, machine’s operating characteristics and the kind of work done by each machine. Moreover, job processing times are increasing functions of their starting times and follow a simple linear deterioration. The rest of this paper is structured as follows: In Section 2 , we define the problem and introduce the objective functions in detail. Next, the mathematical formulation for the model is developed. In Section 3 , the Lp-metric method is proposed to show the importance of considering these two objectives, simultaneously. In Section 4 , we describe an approach in order to consider the two objectives as a single objective and a numerical example is used to prove the accuracy of the model with a single objective. In Section 5 , a heuristic algorithm is developed to locate optimal or near optimal solutions based on a Tabu search mechanism. In Section 6 , numerical examples are presented to show the efficiency of this model. Finally, Section 7 includes the conclusion and further research suggestions. 2. Problem description Let there be N independent jobs, J 1 ,  J 2 , … ,  J n on a number of parallel machines selected from a set of M potential machines. Each job J i has a processing time p i and a due date d i . All jobs are available at time zero and no preemption is allowed. Each machine is supposed to deteriorate at a different rate. This deterioration is a function of production rate, machine’s operating characteristics and the kind of work accomplished by each machine and considered in terms of cost. Furthermore, we assume that jobs deteriorate while waiting to be processed. The job scheduling problem to minimize weighted tardiness in parallel machines is NP-hard in the strong sense [18]  and  [17] , then the combinational problem in which the objective functions are minimizing the total tardiness and machine deteriorating cost will also be NP-hard. The notation and other assumptions we used in mathematical formulation is given below.