Volume 2862 of the series Lecture Notes in Computer Science pp 44-60 SLURM: Simple Linux Utility for Resource Management Andy B. Yoo Affiliated with Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory , Morris A. Jette Affiliated with Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory , Mark Grondona Affiliated with Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory A new cluster resource management system called Simple Linux Utility Resource Management (SLURM) is described in this paper. SLURM, initially developed for large Linux clusters at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (LLNL), is a simple cluster manager that can scale to thousands of processors. SLURM is designed to be flexible and fault-tolerant and can be ported to other clusters of different size and architecture with minimal effort. We are certain that SLURM will benefit both users and system architects by providing them with a simple, robust, and highly scalable parallel job execution environment for their cluster system. This document was prepared as an account of work sponsored by an agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States Government nor the University of California nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product, or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or the University of California. The views and opinions of authors expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or the University of California, and shall not be used for advertising or product endorsement purposes. This work was performed under the auspices of the U.S. Department of Energy by the University of California, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory under Contract No. W-7405-Eng-48. Document UCRL-JC-147996.