  This paper presents a genetic algorithm (GA)-based optimisation approach to improve container handling operations at the Patrick AutoStrad container terminal located in Brisbane Australia. In this paper we focus on scheduling for container transfers and encode the problem using a two-part chromosome approach which is then solved using a modified genetic algorithm. In simulation experiments, the performance of the GA-based approach and a sequential job scheduling method are evaluated and compared with different scheduling scenarios. The experimental results show that the GA-based approach can find better solutions which improve the overall performance. The GA-based approach has been implemented in the terminal scheduling system and the live testing results show that the GA-based approach can reduce the overall time-related cost of container transfers at the automated container terminal. ► We present a modified genetic algorithm (GA)-based optimisation approach. ► We describe and modify the problem model for container transfers. ► The GA-based approach outperforms the sequential job scheduling method. ► The GA-based approach improves the actual scheduling performance. Keywords Modelling ; Scheduling ; Genetic algorithms ; Autonomous straddle carrier ; Automated seaport container terminals 1. Introduction Both the capacity and frequency of container carrying ships arriving at seaport container terminals have increased steadily during the past several decades ( Günther and Kim, 2006  and  Steenken et al., 2004 ). The efficiency of container transfers must be as high as possible so as to reduce costs to terminal operators and increase the productivity of the terminal. This requires efficient use of yard vehicles to load, unload and transfer containers during the transportation process. Automating container terminals to some extent is a trend in container terminal operations ( Kim et al., 2004  and  Liu et al., 2004 ). Increasing automation of yard vehicles not only reduces the labour costs of terminal operators, but also has the potential to increase the efficiency of container transport. Nevertheless, as compared with human operated yard vehicles there is an ongoing requirement to ensure a high degree of coordination and efficiency for all material handling equipment participating in the transportation process. As a result efficient operation of automated yard vehicles in a terminal area is a challenging problem of terminal management. Seaport container terminals around the world currently employ a multitude of container handling equipment. Quay Cranes (QCs) are commonly used in seaports for uploading/unloading containers to/from ships on the quay-side. Different seaports use different kinds of yard vehicles for transferring containers within the ports. The Straddle Carrier (SC) is one of the most common types of yard vehicles for such container transfer. They can pick-up/set-down containers autonomously without a human operator in the yard area. At the Patrick AutoStrad container terminal ( Fig. 1 ), a fleet of fully autonomous SCs are used for container transport ( Nelmes, 2005 ) ( Fig. 2 ). More than twenty autonomous SCs are issued high level commands from a central computer system located at the port. The navigation system allows the SCs to travel along any planned trajectory while performing collision detection. These SCs are the only vehicles to transfer containers among QC area, yard area and the truck (TK) area which makes this terminal unique when compared with current seaports that use human operated SCs for container transporting. Fig. 1.  Satellite view of the Patrick AutoStrad container terminal within the Port of Brisbane at Fisherman Islands Australia [Google Earth]. At the Patrick AutoStrad container terminal, like many other seaport terminals, one of the main tasks of a fleet of SCs is to serve the QCs such that the maximal QC turn-around rate can be achieved ( Nelmes, 2005  and  Yuan et al., 2009 ). This will reduce the ship berthing time and increase the terminal productivity. Moreover, the SCs also need to serve the trucks which are used to transfer containers between customers and the seaport terminal such that the truck waiting time is minimised. Furthermore, the seaport operator would like SCs to perform less urgent yard-to-yard container transportation jobs (e.g. yard maintenance) as part of their yard management strategy.