  We consider the problem of scheduling N jobs on M parallel machines that operate at different speeds (known as uniform parallel machines), to minimize the sum of earliness and tardiness costs. Jobs are assumed to arrive in a dynamic albeit deterministic manner, and have nonidentical due dates. Violations of due dates result in earliness or tardiness penalties that may be different for different jobs. Setup times are job-sequence dependent and may be different on different machines based on the characteristics of the machines. For this problem, we present a mixed integer formulation that has substantially fewer zero–one variables than typical formulations for scheduling problems of this type. We present our computational experience in using this model to solve small sized problems, and discuss solution approaches for solving larger problems. Scope and purpose In JIT environments, firms face the need to complete jobs as close to their due dates as possible. Failure to do so would result in earliness and/or tardiness costs and the optimum schedule would seek to minimize functions of these costs. In many real-world situations, the problem is greatly complicated by the presence of disparate issues such as: (i) uniform parallel machines that are capable of processing these jobs at different speeds; (ii) sequence-dependent setup times; (iii) distinct job due dates; (iv) distinct job ready dates; and (v) distinct earliness and/or tardiness costs for each job. For this complex problem, we present a compact mathematical model and describe our computational experience in using this model to solve small sized problems. Keywords Scheduling ; Parallel machines ; Earliness–tardiness problem Corresponding author. Tel.: 001 864 656 3769; Fax: 001 864 656 2015 1 Nagraj (Raju) Balakrishnan is an Associate Professor of Management at Clemson University. He holds Bachelors and Masters degrees in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Madras (India) and the University of Kentucky respectively, and a Ph.D. in Management from Purdue University. His current research focuses on job and tool scheduling, capacity allocation models, and problems related to the interface between manufacturing and marketing. His papers have been published in Decision Sciences, European Journal of Operational Research, Production and Operations Management, International Journal of Production Research, IIE Transactions, Networks, Computers & Operations Research, and others. He serves on the editorial review board of Production and Operations Management. 2 John J. Kanet holds the BS in Mech. Eng., from Lehigh University, the MBA from Loyalo College and the Ph.D. from Penn State. He is the Burlington Professor of Management at Clemson University. Formerly, he served at the University of Georgia and Texas A&M University. He is a former materials manager for the Black & Decker Mfg. Co. and his work in the field of production planning and scheduling has been published with more than 75 publications in some of the leading scientific journals. His current research interests include studying new approaches to production planning systems design and performance measurement in manufacturing. 3 ‘Sri’ V Sridharan is a Professor of Management at Clemson University. He is currently involved in research projects focusing on manufacturing-marketing interface issues, planning and control systems, master scheduling, and operations scheduling. His research results have appeared in Decision Sciences, European Journal of Operational Research, Interna tional Journal of Production Economics, International Journal of Production Research, Journal of Operations Management, Management Science, and numerous other journals. He is the editor of POM CHRONICLE. Copyright © 1998 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.