Password: One of the most important issues in computer integrated manufacturing systems is job scheduling. Though many scheduling criteria for job scheduling have been proposed, most of them are impractical for application in the low-volume/high-variety manufacturing environment. This paper reports the development of a knowledge-based dynamic job-scheduling system in the low-volume/high-variety manufacturing environment. The system provides us with a practical facility for job scheduling which takes into account the influence of many factors such as machine setup times, cell changes, replacement machines and load balancing among machines. The system is based on a set of heuristic algorithms and intranet technology. It has been found that the knowledge-based paradigm and the intranet technology are very useful for complex scheduling problems in low-volume/high-variety manufacturing cases. Keywords Dynamic job-scheduling ; Intranet technology ; Low-volume/high-variety manufacturing 1. Introduction In many manufacturing companies, job scheduling is performed by experienced shop-floor personnel with pencil, paper, a few graphical aids (such as Gantt charts) and perhaps a modern industrial database [1]  and  [2] . It is quite a complicated and difficult task, especially in the low-volume/high-variety manufacturing. In the scheduling of job shops, the most common methodology is materials requirement planning (MRP). However, MRP is mainly a planning tool and is not really designed for detailed-level scheduling [2] . On this point, many other methodologies possess nearly the same nature as MRP, such as MRPII, JIT, OPT and so on. Moreover, as planning tools, they are more practical for job scheduling in high-volume/low-variety manufacturing than in low-volume/high-variety manufacturing because in a high-volume production line, scheduling is viewed as a resource allocation problem rather than as a detail job-scheduling problem. This paper reports the development of a knowledge-based dynamic job-scheduling system in low-volume/high-variety manufacturing environment. This system adequately addresses the influence of the factors such as setup times, cell changes, replacement machines and overtime work for personnel. The objective of the system is to provide shop-floor managers with a practical scheduling tool which dynamically assigns the workers and the products to different types of machines or production lines, satisfying due dates and maximizing machine utilization when the order data to be scheduled and the actual production progress have been given. As practical software, this system involves hundreds of machines and thousands of jobs to be scheduled over a period varying from several hours to several days. This system is not intended to obtain the optimal schedule. Rather, we want to obtain a near-optimal schedule with a quantifiable performance and within reasonable computation time. The system also provides some analysis tools for analyzing the reasons for delay, machine utilization, accumulation status of semiproducts, etc. Client/server architecture and intranet technology are used so that different users can share the database on a WindowsNT server. The client of this system can be Netscape Navigator or Microsoft Explorer, which makes the system more powerful and practical. 2. Scheduling problem in low-volume/high-variety manufacturing 2.1. Scheduling problem description The basic problem of shop scheduling is how to dispatch the processed products and personnel to the suitable machines according to the assigned constraints, namely, obtaining when and where (which machine) each operation of each job (job means a scheduling unit in this paper) is processed for to satisfy performance measures. Here, we consider a flexible-flow shop that produces a low-volume/high-variety of discrete jobs. In such a shop, there are groups of machine groups of various functionality. Each group includes a few homogeneous machines and one machine can process at most one job at a time. The production process of each job is composed of a fixed sequence of operations that require distinct machining facilities. No machine group is visited more than once in a production flow but different production flows may have operations steps that are completed by the same machine group. A production flow line can be described as in Fig. 1 . Fig. 1.  Here, b i denotes the semiproduction buffer which stores the semiproducts which are waiting to be processed by the next operation. P i is a production step, maybe including one or several processes of the production flow. All the machines that complete a production step compose an equipment scheduling unit (ESU). In this paper, the ESU is a machine or a production line which consists of several machines and sequentially complete several processes. The concept of ESU will be described in detail in Section 3 . The objectives of our scheduling algorithm are to meet the due dates of the orders as possible, to minimize semiproduction buffers and simultaneously to maximize the machine utilization. 2.2. Classification of information Because the scheduling involves many factors, to load a job onto a machine with the objective of satisfying due dates and maximizing machine utilization in the low-volume/high-variety manufacturing environment, it is plagued with many difficulties. In this section, we first introduce these factors which influence the scheduling and then summarize the scheduling problem. The factors used in this system can be listed as follows: order information, process design information, shop floor personnel information, cell and machine information, load balancing information and actual production progress information. Fig. 2 shows the individual parts of each type of information. The following will describe them in detail. Fig. 2.  The data flow of the scheduling system. 2.2.1. Order information Order information generally contains the name of the products, due dates, the number of the products and etc. In order to make it convenient to schedule the production in low-volume/high-variety manufacturing, the orders from different customers are all divided into different lots by a process designer of the manufacturing company. An order from a customer may includes one or several lots. In this system, a lot is the job scheduling unit. In a later discussion, we often use the word `lot' instead of `job'. The due date is one of the most important factors which are usually considered in common scheduling algorithms. The difference in this system is that due dates of every lot includes two dates: the assigned due date and the basic due date, which is more flexible for managers controlling the production. 2.2.2. Process design information Process design information tells us by which type of machine or production line each process of every lot is processed. Here, we assume that a process of any lot is performed by any machine belonging to an assigned machine group or production line. 2.2.3. Shop floor personnel information This information gives the working time horizon of each personnel and personnel group information. To meet due dates of the orders, sometimes some operators are asked to work overtime. Furthermore, the working time horizons are different in different companies and even for different operators in the same company, such as full-time workers and part-time workers. Therefore, the working time horizon of the personnel is considered as a variable in this system. 2.2.4. Cell and machine information To adapt to low-volume/high-variety manufacturing, especially in a semiautomatic production environment where the change from one part to another is performed by workers on one machine, managers generally combine the different machines into variable cells in order to dispatch jobs and personnel conveniently. A cell is a set of machines which are independent or a production line which completes more than one manufacturing process. We will describe the characteristics and calculations of cells in a later section.