This paper considers advanced planning and scheduling (APS) in which each customer order has a due date and outsourcing is available. We present a model for APS that requires an absolute due date with outsourcing in a manufacturing supply chain. In practice, planning and scheduling are interrelated and should be solved simultaneously with outsourcing to ensure that the due dates of customer orders are met. The proposed model considers alternative process plans for job types, with precedence constraints for job operations. Such a model has not been treated in the literature. The integrated states include: (a) selecting the best machine for each operation, (b) deciding the sequence of operations, (c) picking the operations to be outsourced, and (d) minimizing the makespan for the due date of each order. To solve the model, a genetic algorithm (GA)-based heuristic approach was developed. In numerical experiments, the GA-based approach efficiently solved the APS model, and produced the best process plans (operation sequence and machine selection with outsourcing) and schedules for all orders. Keywords Process planning ; Scheduling ; Due date ; Outsourcing ; Genetic algorithm 1. Introduction In a supply chain environment, one manufacturing problem is that a number of customer-specific orders must be manufactured in a multi-project type of environment. Multiple customer-specific orders are subject to tight due dates, while at the same time there are long makespans, which result from order-specific parts that have to be manufactured in-house or produced outside. Capacity is generally scarce because, to be competitive, fixed costs have been reduced by outsourcing in recent years ( Kolisch, 2000 ). In a flexible industrial process, each order involves a different set of jobs in the fabrication and assembly process. The operations involved in a job are interrelated by precedence constraints, and can use alternative machines. Capacity adjustment is also possible through outsourcing with subcontractors when due dates cannot be kept. Timely and reliable delivery of products is an important factor in the manufacturing supply chain to ensure that manufacturing companies remain competitive. In some industries, meeting due dates is the bottom line for survival ( Chung, Lee, Shin, & Park, 2000 ). Advanced planning and scheduling (APS) is very important in this environment, because it is at the leading edge of manufacturing management application technology. APS includes a range of capabilities, from finite-capacity scheduling at the shop floor level through to constraint-based planning ( Turbide, 1998 ). The appeal of APS to manufacturers is obvious, because companies can optimize their supply chains to reduce costs, improve product margins, lower inventories, and increase manufacturing throughput. APS necessitates deciding when to build each order, in what operation sequence, and with what machines to meet the required due dates. In practice, any job assigned to a manufacturing supply chain can be scheduled on more than one machine and may have flexible operation sequences. If some jobs have certain operation sequences, they should be considered for an integrated model using alternative machines with outsourcing. In the traditional approach, process planning and scheduling are implemented sequentially, and the process plan is determined before the actual scheduling. Although these methods may be simple, they ignore the relationship between scheduling and process planning. Assuming that scheduling takes place after the process plan is determined ignores the possibility of a schedule using alternative machines. Recently, some research related to integrated process planning and scheduling has been published. Hankins, Wysk, and Fox (1984) discussed the advantages of using alternative machine tool routings to improve the productivity of a machine shop. They showed that using alternative machines reduces lead-time and improves overall machine utilization. They also stated that when there are a large number of jobs to schedule, and a large number of alternative machines available, the use of mathematical programming techniques to balance the workload becomes prohibitive. Nasr and Elsayed (1990) presented two heuristics to determine an efficient schedule for the n jobs/ m machines problem, with alternative machine tool routings allowed for each operation. The object was to minimize the mean flow time for jobs. Palmer, 1996  and  Sundaram and Fu, 1988 discussed integrated process planning and scheduling. Brandimarte and Calderini (1995) developed a two-phase hierarchical Tabu search for efficient planning and scheduling. Palmer (1996) developed a method based on simulated annealing (SA). However, these authors did not consider a precedence rule for the operation sequence; they only considered the time aspect with a non-constraint operational sequence. Kolisch and Hess (2000) considered the problem of scheduling multiple, large-scale, make-to-order assemblies under resource, assembly area, and part availability constraints. They introduced three efficient heuristic solution methods: a biased random sampling method, and two Tabu-search-based large-step optimization methods. Dellaert, Jeunet, and Jonard (2000) discussed the multi-level lot-sizing (MLLS) problem in material requirements planning (MRP) systems. They developed a binary encoding genetic algorithm (GA) and designed five specific genetic operators to ensure that exploration takes place within the set of feasible solutions. Gupta, Neppalli, and Werner (2001) considered the two-machine flowshop scheduling problem, which seeks to find a minimum total flow time schedule subject to the condition that the makespan of the schedule is minimum. Caraffa, Ianes, Bagchi, and Sriskandarajah (2001) considered the problem of minimizing the makespan of n jobs in an m machine flowshop operating without buffers. They discussed the blocking flowshop problem, known to be strongly NP-hard for a shop with more than two machines. They developed a GA approach to solve large size-restricted slowdown flowshop problems, of which blocking flowshop problems are a special case. Recently, research on the outsourcing and scheduling problem, in which each job has its due date, has also been published. This includes the following studies. Holloway and Nelson (1974) suggested an alternative formulation of the job shop scheduling problem, based on the concept that capacity constraints and operation precedence relations are allowed to be violated if keeping due dates is more important. Chung et al. (2000) considered a kind of job shop scheduling problem in which each job has its due date. They thought that temporal adjustment of machine capacity is possible through outsourcing, and presented a heuristic solution procedure that addressed the total job shop scheduling problem by solving a series of smaller subproblems to optimality. Kolisch (2000) discussed the problem in which different customer orders need the same part types; hence, the fabrication of parts had to consider lot-sizing decisions. The overall problem was how to coordinate fabrication and assembly with respect to scarce capacities in the assembly and fabrication, so that the holding- and setup-cost of the entire supply chain-fabrication assembly are minimized. He introduced a mixed-integer programming model and a two-level backward-oriented heuristic for the problem, and discussed its properties. Biskup and Jahnke (2001) focused on analyzing the problem of assigning a common due date to a set of jobs and scheduling them on a single machine. They assumed that the processing times of the jobs are controllable. They considered a situation in which it is only possible to reduce all the processing times by the same proportional amount. Besides assigning a common due date, they concentrated on two goals: minimizing the sum of earliness and tardiness penalties, and minimizing the number of late jobs. Lin (2001) discussed the problem of minimizing either the maximum tardiness or the number of tardy jobs in a two-machine flowshop with due date considerations. Sung and Min (2001) considered a scheduling problem for a two-machine flowshop incorporating batch processing machines (BPMs), which considers the earliness/tardiness ( E / T ) measure and a common due date. Although many studies have considered minimizing the makespan in process planning and scheduling, they did not consider a real manufacturing environment. Most models ignore alternative process plans, such as alternative operations sequences with precedence constraints. These studies did not focus on the finite resource capacity of a flowshop and rarely studied the strength of integrated process planning and scheduling with specific due dates for customer orders. Although outsourcing was considered given due date constraints, most models considering outsourcing were not efficiently integrated with process planning and scheduling, because they assumed a fixed machine for an operation or a fixed operation sequence. Therefore, we developed a model of a real manufacturing supply chain. This model integrates process planning, scheduling, and outsourcing, to keep the due date of each customer order. Such an integrated model can be regarded as an APS model, as mentioned above. The main objectives of this paper were to produce an APS model that minimizes the makespan by considering alternative machines, alternative sequences of operations with precedence constraints, and outsourcing. To solve the model, a GA-based approach was developed. The approach is capable of generating an optimized process plan and schedule, which are integrated. The remainder of this paper is arranged as follows: Section 2 defines the problem, and development of the APS model is explained in Section 3 . A GA-based approach is presented in Section 4 . Section 5 describes the experimental results and compares the performance of the model with traditional approaches. Finally, discussion and conclusions are presented in Section 6 . 2. Problem definition Since production in a flexible industrial process is on a massive scale and requires long operating times, it is very important to make a production schedule that meets the due dates. Specific characteristics of a flexible industrial process include small lot size and operations that take a long time. If a customer order exceeds the due date, alternative machines, including outsourcing, should be used for operations related to the job. The makespan should be minimized to keep the due date for each customer order. The structure of the supply chain in a flexible industrial process is shown in Fig. 1 . This chain has a four-level (supply, fabrication, assembly, customer) structure.