  Production Scheduling problems are typically named bases on the processing routes of their jobs on different processors and also the number of processors in each stage. In this paper, we consider the problem of scheduling a job shop (JSS) where set-up times are sequence-dependent (SDST) to minimize the maximum completion times of operations or makespan. Our problem is generally formulated as J/STsd/C max J / S T s d / C max . To tackle such an NP-hard problem, a recent effective metaheuristic algorithm known as variable neighborhood search (VNS) is employed. VNS algorithms have shown excellent capability to solve scheduling problems to optimal or near-optimal schedule. Our proposed VNS is readily intelligible yet is a robust solution technique for the problem of SDST JSS. VNS is categorized as a local search-based algorithm armed with systematic neighborhood search structures. Our proposed VNS obviates the notorious myopic behavior of local search-based metaheuristic algorithms by the means of several systematic insertion neighborhood search structures. An experimental design based on Taillard’s benchmark is conducted to evaluate the efficiency and effectiveness of our proposed algorithm against some effective algorithms in the literature. The obtained results strongly support the high performance of our proposed algorithm with respect to other well-known heuristic and metaheuristic algorithms. Keywords Scheduling ; Job shop ; Sequence-dependent set-up time ; Variable neighborhood search ; Variable neighborhood descent ; Insertion neighborhood 1. Introduction Scheduling is undoubtedly one of the most useful and successful fields of operations research. As the total cost of production generally constitutes a sizeable proportion of any enterprize, it is not surprising that each company seeks to discover an efficient design of their shop environment as well as proper sequencing of jobs on different machines to minimize the times of operations. Multi-stage scheduling problems consist of a set of n n jobs requiring execution on more than one machine. Each of these jobs has a set of operations needing to be processed on a set of machines. Each job visits the machines following a certain order known as the processing route . If the processing routes are not given in advance, and have to be chosen, the scheduling problem is called an open shop configuration. In open shop scheduling the processing order of operations follows no definite precedence. As long as the operations of a job are done, the job is done  [1] . If each job has a fixed and exclusive processing route , the problem is called job shop configuration. In this configuration, the processing route of operations is determined in advance but is not identical for all the operations  [2] . If the processing routes are fixed and are identical for all the jobs, the problem is called a flow shop  [3] . In this paper, we consider job shop scheduling which is one of the most applied production scheduling configuration  [4] .