In a distributed manufacturing environment, jobs in a batch could usually be manufactured in several available factories and thus have multiple alternative process plans. This paper presents a new approach to determine good combinations of factories (process plans) to manufacture the jobs and in the meantime generate good operation schedules. A genetic algorithm (GA), integrated with Gantt chart (GC), is proposed to derive the factory combination and schedule. The integration of GA–GC is proved to be efficient in solving small-sized or medium-sized scheduling problems for a distributed manufacturing system. Multiple objectives can be achieved, including minimizing makespan, job tardiness, or manufacturing cost. An illustrative example is given to demonstrate and evaluate the performance of the GA–GC approach. Keywords Genetic algorithm ; Gantt chart ; Production scheduling 1. Introduction Traditionally, process planning focuses on the selection of the machines and set-up of machine parameters for job operations, while production scheduling deals with the assignments of machines as well as manufacturing times to process the job operations. With the prevailing trends of globalized manufacturing in recent years, the production of a part would have several feasible process plans, each for a different geographically distributed factory. Accordingly, job scheduling in such a distributed manufacturing system becomes more difficult than conventional job scheduling. Determining an efficient schedule for general job shop problems has been the subject of research for several decades. The generation of scheduling plans for job shops has been literarily addressed using optimization approaches (for example, Potts and Wassenhove, 1985 , Schrage and Baker, 1978  and  Yano and Kim, 1991 ) or approximation approaches (for example, Dauzere-Peres and Paulli, 1997 , Mastrolilli and Gambardella, 1998  and  Verma and Dessouky, 2000 ). Among the various solution approaches to different scheduling problems, there has been an increasing interest in applying genetic algorithms (GAs) to solve the engineering optimization including manufacturing scheduling (for example, Fang et al., 1993 , Hou et al., 1994 , Zalzala and Fleming, 1997 , Park et al., 2003  and  Srikanth and Barkha, 2004 ). Frequently, genetic algorithms are able to outperform many optimization or approximation approaches. When dealing with the scheduling problem in a distributed manufacturing system, in which one job could be manufactured in several available factories, and thus have multiple alternative process plans, the commonly used genetic algorithms appear not flexible enough to choose a good factory (process plan) combination and in the meantime give good job processing schedule. Considering the above aspects, this paper addresses an innovative GA, which applies crossover operator once and mutation operator twice to simultaneously improve the factory selections and job sequence selections. When integrated with Gantt chart (GC), the proposed genetic algorithm could generate good scheduling results with different objectives including makespan minimization, cost minimization, etc. in a reasonable computational time. Jia, Nee, Fuh, and Zhang (2003) proposed a modified GA to solve the job shop scheduling problems in a distributed manufacturing environment. The GA developed in this paper is an extension of the pervious work and it uses the integration of the GA with the GC in order to solve the small-sized or medium-sized scheduling problems in an more efficient and effective manner. The rest of the paper is organized as follows. In Section 2 , we introduce the characteristics of a general distributed manufacturing system. In Section 3 , the proposed GA is described in detail. Moreover, the integration of the GA and the GC is presented. Section 4 gives an illustrative example to demonstrate the use of the proposed GA in solving the scheduling problems for distributed manufacturing systems. Finally, we give conclusions in Section 5 . 2. Description of the distributed manufacturing system In a distributed manufacturing system, multiple factories can be selected to manufacture the jobs. Each factory that is available to process the jobs may have different machines and machine available times. In addition, each job involves many processing operations based on the features of the part and has different process plans, each suited for an available factory. To generate the manufacturing schedule in such a distributed manufacturing environment, two problems need to be considered: • The selection of the factory (process plan) for each job; and • The assignments of the machines and the times to process the operations of each job. To address these two problems, we use the following notations to represent the elements in the distributed manufacturing system including the jobs, machines, and factories. With these notations, the relationship among the jobs, machines, and factories in a distributed manufacturing system can be depicted as follows in Fig. 1 . Fig. 1.  3.1. Representation of selected factories and job operations In a distributed manufacturing environment, where jobs will be dispatched to many factories, the encoding of the scheduling problem becomes more complex since the chromosomes have to comprise more information including the selected factory for every job as well as the job’s operation sequence. One advantage of the GA is that it treats the factors of a problem as genes, and then arranges the genes in all possible ways to obtain the good solution. To deal with the distributed manufacturing system, a gene in the GA must comprise two determinant factors, i.e., the selected factory with the corresponding process plan and the job operation. In the proposed GA, we use a three digit string as a gene to represent a factory and an operation of a job. The first digit is the identification number of the selected factory, which is used to process the job, and the next two digits represent an operation of a job ID. Thus, the operations of all the jobs can be represented by a random combination of genes, which is called chromosome in GA terminology, as long as the combination comprises the selected factories as well as the operations of all the jobs.