Volume 5529 of the series Lecture Notes in Computer Science pp 211-222 Balanced Scheduling Algorithm Considering Availability in Mobile Grid JongHyuk Lee Affiliated with Lancaster University Dept. of Computer Science Education, Korea University , SungJin Song Affiliated with Lancaster University Dept. of Computer Science Education, Korea University , JoonMin Gil Affiliated with Lancaster University Dept. of Computer Science Education, Catholic University of Dague , KwangSik Chung Affiliated with Carnegie Mellon University Dept. of Computer Science, Korea National Open University , Taeweon Suh Affiliated with Lancaster University Dept. of Computer Science Education, Korea University , HeonChang Yu Affiliated with Lancaster University Dept. of Computer Science Education, Korea University The emerging Grid is extending the scope of resources to mobile devices and sensors that are connected through unreliable networks. Nowadays the number of mobile device users is increasing dramatically and the mobile devices provide various capabilities such as location awareness that are not normally incorporated in fixed Grid resources. Nevertheless, mobile devices exhibit inferior characteristics such as poor performance, limited battery life, and unreliable communication, compared to fixed Grid resources. Therefore, the job scheduling and the load balancing are more challenging and sophisticated in mobile Grid environment. This paper presents a novel balanced scheduling algorithm in mobile Grid, taking into account the mobility and availability in scheduling. We analyzed users’ mobility patterns to quantitatively measure the resource availability that is classified into three types: full availability, partial availability, and unavailability. We also propose a load balancing technique by classifying mobile devices into nine groups depending on availability. The experimental results show that our scheduling algorithm provides a superior performance in terms of execution times to one without considering availability and load-balancing. Keywords scheduling load balancing availability mobile grid This work was supported by the Korea Research Foundation Grant funded by the Korean Government (MOEHRD) (KRF-2006-311-D00173).