  There is a growing interest in the research of deteriorating job-scheduling problems in recent years. However, the group technology is relatively unexplored in this field. In addition, the group setup times are assumed to be known and fixed. In reality, process setup or preparation often requires more time as food quality deteriorates or a patient's condition worsens. Therefore, this paper considers a situation where both setup times and job-processing times are lengthened as jobs wait to be processed. Specifically, two single-machine group-scheduling problems are investigated where the group setup times and the job-processing times are both increasing functions of their starting times. We first prove that the makespan minimization problem remains polynomially solvable when the deterioration is present. We then show that the sum of completion times problem is polynomially solvable when the numbers of jobs in each group are equal. For the case of unequal job sizes, a heuristic algorithm is proposed, and the computational experiments show that the performance of the heuristic is fairly accurately when the deterioration rate is small. Keywords Group technology ; Single machine ; Deteriorating jobs ; Makespan ; Sum of completion times 1. Introduction For many years, job-processing times are assumed to be known and fixed from the first job to be processed until the last job to be completed. However, there are many situations in which a job that is processed later consumes more time that the same job when processed earlier. Scheduling in this setting is known as deteriorating job scheduling and has received increasing attention in recent years. Examples of increasing processing times occur in many situations, for instance, in scheduling of steel rolling mills where the temperature of an ingot, while waiting to enter the rolling machine, drops below a certain level, requiring the ingot to be reheated before rolling ( Gupta and Gupta, 1988 ), in fire fighting when the time and effort required to control a fire increases if there is a delay in the start of the fire-fighting effort ( Kunnathur and Gupta, 1990 ), and in a medical procedure where more extensive medical treatment might be necessary as a patient's health condition worsens ( Mosheiov, 1996 ). The deteriorating job-scheduling problem was first introduced independently by Gupta and Gupta (1988) and Browne and Yechiali (1990) . These authors constructed models where the processing time of a job is a function of its starting time. Since then, related models of time-dependent processing times have been extensively studied from a variety of perspectives ( Voutsinas and Costas, 2002 ; Wu and Lee, 2006 ; Wang et al., 2006 ; Kang and Ng, 2007 ; Wang and Cheng, 2007 ; Raut et al., 2007 ; Cheng et al., 2008 ; Lee et al., 2008a  and  Lee et al., 2008b ; Lee et al. ). Comprehensive reviews of different models and problems concerning jobs with starting time-dependent processing times were given by Alidaee and Womer (1999) and Cheng et al. (2004) . On the other hand, the production efficiency can be increased by grouping various parts and products with similar designs and/or production processes. This phenomenon is known as the group technology in the literature ( Ham et al., 1985 ). Many advantages have been claimed through the wide applications of group technology. For instance, changeover between different parts are simplified, thereby reducing the costs involved; parts spend less time waiting, which results in less work-in-process inventory; parts tend to move through production in a direct route, and hence the manufacturing lead time is reduced; the variability of tasks is reduced, and hence worker training is simplified ( Burbidge, 1979 ; Webster and Baker, 1995 ; Ng and Cheng, 2005 ; Chen et al., 1997 ; Chiou et al., 2007 ; Schaller, 2007 ). However, the group technology has not been considered by most researchers in deteriorating jobs-scheduling problems until recently. Guo and Wang (2005) investigated the makespan minimization problem where the actual processing time is given by p ij ( t )= p ij ( a + bt ). They showed that the problem is polynomially solvable under the group technology assumption. Under the same model, Xu et al. (2006) proved that the total weighted completion time minimization problem remains polynomially solvable. Moreover, Wang et al. (2007) showed that single-machine group-scheduling problems are polynomially solvable where the objectives are to minimize the makespan and the total completion time under the model that p ij ( t )= a ij − b ij t . However, they all assume that the group setup times are constant. Since longer setup or preparation might be necessary as food quality deteriorates or a patient's condition worsens, we consider a situation where the setup time grows and jobs deteriorate as they wait for processing. To the best of our knowledge, Wu et al. (2008) were probably the only authors who studied the deteriorating jobs-scheduling problems under the group technology with the assumption that both the setup times and the job-processing times are functions of their starting times. They showed that the makespan and the total completion time problems remain polynomially solvable under the model that s i ( t )= δ i t and p ij ( t )= α ij t . In this paper, we investigate two single-machine-scheduling problems in the context of group technology under a different model where the setup times and the job-processing times are both linear functions of their starting times. The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Notation and problem formulation are described in Section 2 . The solution procedures for the makespan problem and the sum of completion times problem are described in 3  and  4 , respectively. The conclusion is given in Section 5 . 2. Notation and problem statement In this section, the notation that is used throughout the paper will be introduced first, followed by the formulation of the problem. Notation m group i , i =1, 2, …, m n j the number of jobs in G j , j =1, 2, …, m N the total number of jobs (i.e., n 1 + n 2 +…+ n m = N ) J ij job j in G j , i =1, 2, …, m , j =1, 2, …, n i δ i the basic setup time for G j , i =1, 2, …, m α ij the basic processing time for J ij , i =1, 2, …, m , j =1, 2, …, n i α i ( j ) the basic processing time for the j th job in G i   when jobs are arranged in non-decreasing order of their basic processing times; that is, α i(1) ⩽α i(2) ⩽⋯⩽α i(n i ) α i ( 1 ) ⩽ α i ( 2 ) ⩽ ⋯ ⩽ α i ( n i ) , i =1, 2, …, m , j =1, 2, …, n i b the deterioration rate of jobs, where b >0 g the deterioration rate of setup, where g >0 s i the actual setup time of G i p ij the actual processing time of J ij S a schedule of N jobs C ij ( S ) the completion time of J ij under schedule S C max the makespan of all jobs Σ C ij the sum of completion times