  This paper studies one machine job scheduling situations where clients can have more than one job to be processed and where a job can be of interest for different players. Corresponding cooperative games are introduced and a result on balancedness is provided. Keywords Cooperative game theory ; Scheduling ; Balancedness 1. Introduction In a job scheduling situation or sequencing problem a number of jobs has to be processed in some order on one or more machines in such a way that a specific cost criterion is minimized. Job scheduling situations can be classified on the basis of many features. We mention the number of machines, the specific properties of the machines (e.g., parallel, serial), the chosen cost criterion (e.g., maximum completion time, weighted completion time), restrictions on the jobs (e.g., ready times, due dates) and possibly the specific order in which the jobs have to be processed on the machines (e.g., job-shop, flow-job). By associating jobs to clients, a sequencing problem gives rise to a multi-active decision making problem. Each client incurs costs, depending on the completion times of his jobs. By assuming an initial order on the jobs, the first problem the clients jointly face is that of finding an optimal reordering of all jobs, i.e., a schedule maximizing joint cost savings. The subsequent problem is how to reallocate these cost savings in a fair way. This “fairness” problem can be analyzed from a game-theoretic point of view. By defining the value of a coalition of clients as the maximum costs it can save by means of an optimal admissible reordering, we obtain a cooperative sequencing game related to the sequencing problem. The core of this game provides insight into the allocation problem at hand since core elements lead to a stable reallocation of the joint cost savings. A game is said to be balanced if it has a non-empty core. The above game-theoretic approach to sequencing situations was initiated in [5] by considering the class of one-machine sequencing situations. The weighted completion cost criterion is used and it is shown that the corresponding sequencing games are convex, and thus balanced. In [6] , one-machine sequencing situations are considered in which each agent has a weakly increasing cost function. It is shown that also in this extended setting the corresponding sequencing games are balanced. In [7] , the class considered in [5] is extended by imposing ready times on the jobs. The corresponding sequencing games are balanced and convex under some additional assumption. Similar results are obtained in [2] in which due dates are imposed on the jobs. Instead of imposing further restrictions on the jobs, [12] , [8]  and  [3] extend the number of machines. In each case balancedness was established for the corresponding games for specific instances. Finally, [13]  and  [11] consider relaxations in the notion of admissibility of reorderings in one machine sequencing situations and focus on balancedness. A recent review on sequencing games can be found in [4] . Throughout the above-mentioned literature it is assumed that there is a one to one correspondence between clients and jobs to be processed on a machine. Now this main assumption in sequencing models is dropped. This paper considers one machine sequencing situations where clients can have more than a single job to be processed. Moreover, a single job can be of interest to more than a single player. Think for instance in tasks that have to be processed by the CPU of a computer. One particular task could be of interest to different clients, and a particular client could be waiting for different tasks in order to obtain a final result. Another example can be found in a court where several legal proceedings have to be pronounced by an examining magistrate. Different people can be involved in the same case and a person can be involved in more than one case. A job is controlled by all players that are involved in it meaning that a coalition may change the position of a job only if all the players that are involved belong to the coalition. We focus on balancedness of the corresponding games and show that it is achieved when cost functions of players are additive with respect to the initial order on the jobs. A formal description of the model is presented in Section 2 . Section 3 is devoted to the balancedness of this kind of games.