Password: This paper considers together machine scheduling and finished product delivery. In particular, it addresses the situation in which jobs require different amounts of storage space during delivery. Three scenarios of the problem are discussed. For the problem in which jobs are processed on a single machine and delivered by a single vehicle to one customer area, we provide a proof of NP-hardness and a heuristic with worst-case analysis. The worst-case performance ratio for our heuristic is proven to be 5/3, and the bound is tight. For the problem in which jobs are processed by either one of two parallel machines and delivered by a single vehicle to one customer area, our heuristic could cause at most 100% error under the worst-case with the bound being tight. For the problem that considers jobs to be processed by a single machine and delivered by a single vehicle to two customer areas, we provide another heuristic that is 100% error bound. Keywords Scheduling ; Heuristics ; Supply chain management 1. Introduction Supply chain management has been one of the most important and widely discussed topics in manufacturing research over the last ten years. A supply chain represents all stages at which value is added to a manufactured product. Generally speaking, it includes all the interactions between suppliers, manufacturers, distributors, and customers. Due to market globalization, coordination among different stages in the supply chain to achieve ideal overall system performance has become more practical and has received attention from both industry practitioners and academic researchers. Furthermore, with the popularity of just-in-time concepts, companies now tend to reduce their inventory levels in order to be competitive. This trend has created a closer interaction between the stages in a supply chain and has increased the practical usefulness of integrated models. In such an integrated system, the linkage between job scheduling (the production stage) and finished goods delivery (the distribution stage) is extremely important. Traditional approaches separately and sequentially consider machine scheduling and job delivery, without effective coordination between the two. However, making two decisions separately without coordination will not necessarily yield a global optimal solution. Substantial ineffectiveness may result when decision-making between the two stages is poorly coordinated, especially when transportation resources are scarce in the system. This paper studies a class of the two-stage scheduling problem in which the first stage is job production and the second stage is job delivery. The focus is on the study of the integration of production scheduling with delivery of finished products to customers. In this problem, jobs are first processed in a manufacturing system then delivered to respective customers. Depending on specific problem characteristics, the manufacturing system can be a single machine or set of machines. The customers can possibly be located at different locations. Jobs are delivered in batches by a transporter. Jobs require varying physical space while being loaded into a transporter and delivered to respective customers. A transporter can be a truck, a specialized car, or any special resource concurrently occupied during job transport. Generically, transporters are referred to as vehicles . Each vehicle is associated with a capacity constraint, measured by the total physical space of the jobs it can deliver in one transport trip. A particular transportation time is associated with each delivery. Job completion time is defined as the time when a job arrives at the customer . All jobs delivered in one shipment to one customer have the same completion times. Considering production and job delivery as one system, the cost function is chosen to measure the customer service level. In particular, we want to minimize the time for all jobs to be delivered to the respective customer(s). The study begins by examining a simplified version of the problem in which each job is processed by a single machine, then delivered by a single vehicle to customers located in close proximity to each other (defined as a one customer area ). (Later in this paper, the problem is then generalized to the case in which jobs are processed by parallel machines and to the case when deliveries are made to two customer areas .) The one customer area assumption applies if the travel times between customers are not significant in comparison with the time from the manufacturing system to the customer or when all jobs are delivered to a regional distribution center rather than to individual customers. It is also applicable to a situation in which the manufacturer makes direct shipments to each customer. In that situation, a routing decision is not needed. We consider a problem in which only one vehicle is available to deliver the finished jobs. It seems unrealistic to assume that there is only one vehicle to deliver the jobs since the manufacturer can easily expand its delivery capacity, if the demand exceeds this capacity, by adding more vehicles or subcontracting some of the deliveries. However, this study examines the coordination effects to gain insights for other, more complicated situations by assuming the delivery capacity to be a constraining factor. The chosen objective function is a fundamental measure of performance in classic machine-scheduling research. It provides useful information to the customer(s) on the estimated completion time for an entire work order. The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. We briefly review the literature in Section 2 . Section 3 defines the studied problems as well as the required notations. This problem is intractable even in a simplified version. We focus, therefore, on developing heuristics with guaranteed worst-case performance for some special cases of the problem. In Section 4 , we study a problem in which jobs are processed by a single machine and are delivered by a single vehicle to a one customer area. Section 5 considers a similar problem but with two parallel machines in the manufacturing system. In Section 6 , we discuss a problem with a single machine but with jobs that must be delivered to either one of two customer areas. Section 7 presents a conclusion as well as a discussion of future research directions. 2. Literature review In the field of machine scheduling, most researchers have studied scheduling problems without taking into account underlying physical material handling systems. The assumption is made that an unlimited capacity is associated with the material handling system and that transportation times between machines are negligible. Only a few researchers have considered the joint optimization of machine scheduling and job transporting in the underlying material handling system. Perhaps the first study that explicitly considered the transportation issue is by Maggu and Das (1980) . They studied a two-machine flow-shop makespan problem in which they assumed that there are unlimited buffers on both machines and a sufficient number of transporters available to transport jobs from one machine to the other with job-dependent transportation times. The problem was solved by using a generalization of Johnson's rule ( Johnson, 1954 ). Maggu et al. (1981) considered the same problem with additional constraints posed on the sequence of processing jobs. Kise (1991) considered a similar problem, but with only one transporter capable of transporting at most one job at a time. Stern and Vitner (1990) , Ganesharajah et al. (1998) , Panwalkar (1991) , and Gemmill and Stevens (1997) considered a similar problem with limited buffer space and unit transporter capacity. Another line of research has focused on problems in which the job completion time is defined as the time when a job is delivered to the destination. Potts (1980) and Hall and Shmoys (1992) studied a single-machine problem with unequal job arrival times and delivery times. In their model, they implicitly assumed that a sufficient number of vehicles are available in the system in order to deliver immediately a processed job to the customer. They provided a heuristic and a worst-case analysis. Woeginger (1994) studied the same problem in the parallel-machine environment with equal job arrival times and provided a heuristic with a worst-case analysis. There is limited research on problems in which jobs are delivered to customers in batches. Several survey papers on scheduling and batching problems are available including those by Potts and Van Wassenhove (1992) , Webster and Baker (1995) and Potts and Kovalyov (2000) . Herrmann and Lee (1993) , Yuan (1996) , Chen (1996) , and Cheng et al. (1996) considered machine scheduling problems with jobs delivered in batches after being processed. Each delivery batch incurred a certain transportation cost. However, they did not consider transportation times, i.e., it was assumed that deliveries can be made instantaneously. Yang (2000) studied a model similar to the one studied by Cheng et al. (1996) , but with given batch delivery dates. Hall et al. (2001) analyzed a variety of problems with different machine environments where a set of available times, at which batches may be delivered, is fixed before the schedule is determined. Lee and Chen (2001) studied machine scheduling problems with explicit transportation considerations. Two types of transportation situations are considered in their models. The first type, Type-1, involves intermediate transportation of jobs from one machine to another for further processing. The second type, Type-2, involves the transportation provided to deliver finished jobs to their destinations. Jobs are delivered in batches by transporter(s). They assumed that all jobs require the same physical space on the transporter. Both transportation capacity and transportation times are considered in their models. Hurink and Knust (2001) independently studied robotic operations in the manufacturing environment, which is an intermediate type of transportation (Type-1 transportation as defined by Lee and Chen (2001) ). They assumed that there is only one transporter available to carry each single job and that the return time of the transporter is zero.