Password: The majority of scheduling research assumes setup as negligible or part of the processing time. While this assumption simplifies the analysis and/or reflects certain applications, it adversely affects the solution quality for many applications which require explicit treatment of setup. Such applications, coupled with the emergence of production concepts like time-based competition and group technology, have motivated increasing interest to include setup considerations in scheduling problems. This paper provides a comprehensive review of the literature on scheduling problems involving setup times (costs). It classifies scheduling problems into batch and non-batch, sequence-independent and sequence-dependent setup, and categorizes the literature according to the shop environments of single machine, parallel machines, flowshops, and job shops. The suggested classification scheme organizes the scheduling literature involving setup considerations, summarizes the current research results for different problem types, and finally provides guidelines for future research. Keywords Machine and shop scheduling ; Setup times ; Setup cost ; Review of problems and algorithms 1. Introduction Setup includes work to prepare the machine, process, or bench for product parts or the cycle [1] . This includes obtaining tools, positioning work in process material, return tooling, cleanup, setting the required jigs and fixtures, adjusting tools, and inspecting material. The setup operation (time and/or cost) has for long been considered negligible and hence ignored, or considered as part of the processing time for the case of setup time. While this may be justified for some scheduling problems, many other situations call for explicit (separable) setup time (cost) consideration. For a separable setup, two problem types exist. In the first type, setup depends only on the job to be processed, hence it is called sequence-independent . In the second, setup depends on both the job to be processed and the immediately preceding job, hence it is called sequence-dependent . The importance of setup times has been investigated in several studies. Wilbrecht and Prescott [2] found that sequence-dependent setup times are significant when a job shop is operated at or near full capacity. In a survey of industrial managers, Panwalkar et al. [3] discovered that about three quarters of the managers reported at least some operations they schedule require sequence-dependent setup times, while approximately 15% reported all operations requiring sequence-dependent setup times. Flynn [4] determined that applications of both sequence-dependent setup procedures and group technology principles increase output capacity in a cellular manufacturing shop, and Wortman [5] underlined the importance of considering sequence-dependent setup times for the effective management of manufacturing capacity. Krajewski et al. [6] examined the factors in a production environment that have the biggest influence on performance and concluded that, regardless of the production system in use, simultaneous reduction of setup times and lot sizes is the most effective way to reduce inventory levels and improve customer service. While recent advances in manufacturing technologies such as Flexible Manufacturing Systems (FMS) or single-minute exchange of die (SMED) concepts have reduced the influence of setup time, there are still many environments where setup time is significant. Furthermore, treating setup time separately from processing time allows operations to be performed simultaneously and hence improves performance. This concept is inherent in recent production management philosophies and techniques such as just-in-time (JIT), optimized production technology (OPT), group technology (GT), cellular manufacturing (CM), and time-based competition 7 , 8 , 9 , 10  and  11 . In some situations setup cost is directly proportional to setup time. This is typically true when concern is limited only to machine idle time. However, there are other situations, where the cost is relatively high for switching between certain jobs even though their switching time is relatively less. This may be attributed in some situations to the high-skilled labor requirement. For the situation where setup cost and setup time are directly proportional, a schedule that is optimal with respect setup time is also optimal with respect to setup cost. There are many practical applications that support the separate consideration of setup tasks from processing tasks. These applications can be found in various shop types and environments; e.g., production, service, and information processing. For sequence-independent setup applications, Bruno and Downey [12] , Monma and Potts [13] , and Chen [14] described a computer system application, in which computer jobs require different compilers. A setup is not incurred if the next job requires a compiler that is already resident in memory. However, if the next job requires a non-resident compiler, a setup time that depends only on the time needed to load the new compiler is incurred. For sequence-dependent setup applications, Pinedo [15] described a paper bag factory where setup is needed when the machine switches between types of paper bags, and the setup duration depends on the degree of similarity between consecutive batches; e.g. size and number of colors. The printing industry provides numerous applications of sequence dependent setups where the machine cleaning depends on the color of the current and immediately following orders [16] . In several textile industry applications, setup for weaving and dying operations depends on the jobs sequence. In the container and bottle industry, the settings change depending on the sizes and shapes of the containers. Further, in the plastic industry, different types and colors of products require sequence-dependent setups 17  and  18 . Similar practical situations arise in the chemical, pharmaceutical, food processing, metal processing, and paper industries 19 , 20 , 21  and  22 . Also, in an automatic turning center (ATC), the setup time depends on the difference in the number and type of the tools currently mounted on the turret and the ones required for the next workpiece. Other examples of sequence-dependent setup time applications include a semiconductor testing facility [23] and a machine shop environment [24] . Sule and Huang [24] described the activities typically associated with sequence-dependent and sequence-independent operations in machine shop environments. Setup time (cost) problems can be classified into two levels; the first (lower) level, which is part of a shop floor control system, is concerned with the role of setup in scheduling jobs with known lot (batch) sizes on one or more machines to optimize certain objectives [22] . The second level is concerned with the role of setup in decision making at the strategic business planning level in production planning and control (e.g. aggregate production planning, MRP, inventory planning), where typical outputs of such decisions include the determination of lot sizes and order release dates 25  and  26 . In order to limit its size and to provide adequate focus, this paper does not consider problems in the second level or problems in the first level which are related to lot streaming (transfer batches). For recent references related to lot streaming work with setup considerations, see 27 , 28 , 29 , 30 , 31 , 32 , 33  and  34 . Several survey articles have been written on various subjects in scheduling, and some researchers have written more than one survey paper on the same subject; e.g. 35  and  36 . However, only a decade ago, Gupta and Kyparisis' survey of single-machine scheduling problems [37] cited only 13 references involving setup time (cost) considerations. Even though scheduling research involving setup considerations began in the mid-sixties and has grown tremendously in the last decade, no comprehensive review paper has appeared on the subject. Therefore, the objective of this paper is to review the literature related to static shop scheduling problems involving setup considerations where a shop may be characterized as a single-machine, parallel-machine shop, flowshop, or a job shop. The rest of the paper is organized as follows: Section 2 presents the notations and a classification schema for the static scheduling problems involving setup considerations. 3 , 4 , 5  and  6 review the setup literature in the single-machine, flow-shop, parallel machine, and job shop environments respectively. Finally, Section 7 summarizes the current status of scheduling research involving setup considerations and provides guidelines for future research.