Password: In this paper, by considering the imprecise or fuzzy nature of the data in real-world problems, job-shop scheduling problems with fuzzy processing time and fuzzy duedate are formulated and a genetic algorithm which is suitable for solving the formulated problems is proposed. On the basis of the agreement index of fuzzy duedate and fuzzy completion time, the formulated fuzzy job-shop scheduling problems are interpreted so as to maximize the minimum agreement index. For solving the formulated fuzzy job-shop scheduling problems, an efficient genetic algorithm is proposed by incorporating the concept of similarity among individuals into the genetic algorithms using the Gannt chart. As illustrative numerical examples, both 6×6 and 10×10 job-shop scheduling problems with fuzzy duedate and fuzzy processing time are considered. Through the comparative simulations with simulated annealing, the feasibility and effectiveness of the proposed method are demonstrated. 1. Introduction The job-shop scheduling problem (JSSP) [1] , [2]  and  [3] has been well-known as one of the hardest combinatorial optimization problems and numerous exact and heuristic algorithms have been proposed [4] . One of the first attempts to approach a simple job-shop scheduling problem through the application of genetic algorithms (GAs) [5] can be seen in the research of Davis [6] in 1985. Since then, a significant number of successful applications of GAs to job-shop scheduling problems has been appearing [7] , [8] , [9] , [10] , [11] , [12] , [13] , [14] , [15]  and  [16] . Naturally, in these job-shop scheduling problems, various factors, such as processing time and duedate and so forth, have precisely been fixed at some crisp values. However, when formulating job-shop scheduling problems which closely describe and represent the real-world problems, various factors involved in the problems are often only imprecisely or ambiguously known to the analyst. This is particularly true in the real-world situations when human-centered factors are incorporated into the problems. In such situations, it may be more appropriate to consider fuzzy processing time due to man-made factors and fuzzy duedate tolerating a certain amount of delay in the duedate [17] , [18]  and  [19] . To be more specific, considering a number of man-made factors that exist in operations and planning and other arrangements are also a part of operations, fuzziness in processing times undeniably exists. Concerning duedate, we can also imagine many situations where ‘it is desirable in principle to strictly satisfy the duedate, a certain amount of delay may be tolerated with longer delay tends to be lower evaluations’. Recently, in order to reflect such situations, a mathematical programming approach to a single machine fuzzy scheduling problem with fuzzy precedence relation [17] , and job-shop scheduling incorporating fuzzy processing time using GAs [18] have been proposed. Under these circumstances, in this paper, in order to more suitably model actual scheduling situations, we formulate job-shop scheduling problems incorporating fuzzy processing time and fuzzy duedate. On the basis of the concept of an agreement index for fuzzy duedate and fuzzy completion time for each job, we interpret the formulated problem as seeking for a schedule that maximizes the minimum agreement index. To solve the formulated fuzzy job-shop scheduling problems, in contrast to the GA which is based on the indirect approach to represent the individuals [18] , we propose an efficient GA by incorporating the concept of similarity among individuals into the GA [11] that uses a Gannt chart as individual representation. As illustrative numerical examples, we consider both 6×6 and 10×10 job-shop scheduling problems with fuzzy processing time and fuzzy duedate in order to demonstrate the feasibility and efficiency of the proposed method. 2. Job-shop scheduling problems with fuzzy processing time and fuzzy duedate In general an n × m job-shop scheduling problem is formulated as follows. Let n jobs J j ( j =1, 2, …, n ) be processed on m machines M r ( r =1, 2, …, m ), and let the operations of job J j on machine M r be O j,i,r , where i ∈(1, …, m ) shows the position of the operation in the technological sequence of the jobs. In other words, O j,i,r, expresses the i th operation of job J j processed on machine r . It is assumed here that only one operation can be processed on each machine at a time, and that each operation cannot be commenced until the processing is completed if the previous operation is still being processed. In contrast to the n × m job-shop scheduling problem, in this paper, a job-shop scheduling problem incorporating fuzzy processing time and fuzzy duedate is formulated as a fuzzy job scheduling problem (FJSSP). In FJSSP considered in this paper, the fuzzy processing time of operation O j,i,r is represented by a triangular fuzzy number (TFN) Ã j,i,r and denoted by a triplet ( a 1 j,i,r , a 2 j,i,r , a 3 j,i,r ) as shown in Fig. 1(a) . As shown in Fig. 1(b) , the fuzzy duedate D̃ j is represented by the degree of satisfaction with respect to the job completion time, and denoted by a doublet ( d 1 j , d 2 j ). For the fuzzy duedate D̃ j of each job, when the fuzzy completion time for each job is expressed as TFN B̃ j , we seek for the schedule that maximizes the minimum value of the agreement index AI of the fuzzy completion time B̃ j with respect to the fuzzy duedate D̃ j . Here, as shown in Fig. 2 , the agreement index AI of the fuzzy completion time B̃ j with respect to the fuzzy duedate D̃ j is defined as value of the area ▴ of membership function intersection divided by the area ▵ of the B̃ j membership function [19]  and  [20] . To be more explicit The agreement index AI can be viewed as the portion of B̃ j that completed by the duedate. Fig. 1. 