Research on the Job Shop Scheduling Optimization based on CPSO Algorithm. Source: Journal of Convergence Information Technology . Jun2012, Vol. 7 Issue 11, p60-66. 7p. Author(s): Jia He; Jin Jin Abstract: In consideration of traditional particle swarm optimization algorithm's weaknesses like premature convergence and local optimization etc., we hereby put forward a JSP optimization method based on chaos particle swarm optimization (CPSO) algorithm, with a view to improving the job scheduling efficiency. First of all, we will take the "Minimum Machining Time" as the optimization objective to set up a multi-constraint JSP mathematical model, and then solve the model through the particle algorithm, in addition to maintaining the particle diversification by using the chaos mechanism. Simulation test results show that compared to traditional particle swarm optimization algorithm, CPSO has shorter mean solving time, and leads to better job shop scheduling plan, which helps efficiently resolve the job shop scheduling problem. Copyright of Journal of Convergence Information Technology is the property of Advanced Institute of Convergence Information Technology and its content may not be copied or emailed to multiple sites or posted to a listserv without the copyright holder's express written permission. However, users may print, download, or email articles for individual use. This abstract may be abridged. No warranty is given about the accuracy of the copy. Users should refer to the original published version of the material for the full abstract. For access to this entire article and additional high quality information, please check with your college/university library, local public library, or affiliated institution. Important User Information: Remote access to EBSCO's databases is permitted to patrons of subscribing institutions accessing from remote locations for personal, non-commercial use. However, remote access to EBSCO's databases from non-subscribing institutions is not allowed if the purpose of the use is for commercial gain through cost reduction or avoidance for a non-subscribing institution. Privacy Policy Terms of Use Copyright © 2015 EBSCO Industries, Inc. All rights reserved.