  Job scheduling in data centers can be considered from a cyber–physical point of view, as it affects the data center’s computing performance (i.e. the cyber aspect) and energy efficiency (the physical aspect). Driven by the growing needs to green contemporary data centers, this paper uses recent technological advances in data center virtualization and proposes cyber–physical , spatio-temporal (i.e. start time and servers assigned), thermal-aware job scheduling algorithms that minimize the energy consumption of the data center under performance constraints (i.e. deadlines). Savings are possible by being able to temporally “spread” the workload, assign it to energy-efficient computing equipment, and further reduce the heat recirculation and therefore the load on the cooling systems. This paper provides three categories of thermal-aware energy-saving scheduling techniques: (a) FCFS-Backfill-XInt and FCFS-Backfill-LRH , thermal-aware job placement enhancements to the popular first-come first-serve with back-filling ( FCFS-backfill ) scheduling policy; (b) EDF-LRH , an online earliest deadline first scheduling algorithm with thermal-aware placement; and (c) an offline genetic algorithm for SCheduling to minimize thermal cross-INTerference ( SCINT ), which is suited for batch scheduling of backlogs. Simulation results, based on real job logs from the ASU Fulton HPC data center, show that the thermal-aware enhancements to FCFS-backfill achieve up to 25% savings compared to FCFS-backfill with first-fit placement, depending on the intensity of the incoming workload, while SCINT achieves up to 60% savings. The performance of EDF-LRH nears that of the offline SCINT for low loads, and it degrades to the performance of FCFS-backfill for high loads. However, EDF-LRH requires milliseconds of operation, which is significantly faster than SCINT , the latter requiring up to hours of runtime depending upon the number and size of submitted jobs. Similarly, FCFS-Backfill-LRH is much faster than FCFS-Backfill-XInt , but it achieves only part of FCFS-Backfill-XInt ’s savings. Keywords Job scheduling ; Job placement ; Energy efficiency ; Thermal-aware algorithms ; Heuristic algorithms ; Virtualized data centers ; Green computing 1. Introduction Reducing the energy consumption of data centers and making them greener has been the interest of academic research, industry and state [1] , [2] , [3] , [4] , [5] , [6] , [7]  and  [8] . In 2006, data centers in the US used 59 billion kWh of electricity, costing the US $4.1 billion and 864 million metric tons of carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) ( CO 2 ) emissions; this accounted for 2% of the total USA energy budget, while it is projected that it will reach 3% by the year 2010 [9] . A large portion of this energy (up to 50%) is consumed for cooling data centers. Various energy efficiency techniques are being developed at various levels; at chip level (low-voltage ICs [10] ), at chassis level (ensemble-level power management [11] ), at data center level (energy-efficient design [12] , capturing and reusing the produced heat [13] ). This paper focuses on energy-efficient thermal-aware job scheduling for high performance computing (HPC) data centers. HPC data centers are oriented toward computation-intensive applications, e.g. simulations or large data set processing, that require many processors and may run for long periods of time. Thermal-aware job scheduling describes any scheduling effort that has some degree of knowledge of the thermal impact (i.e. the effect on the heat and temperature distribution in the data center room) of a schedule to the data center. Thermal-aware job scheduling is a cyber–physical approach to scheduling which aims to produce schedules that yield minimal cooling needs and therefore are energy-efficient. It is cyber–physical because it takes into consideration both the cyber (computing) performance and the physical (energy, cooling) performance. Most of the previous work on thermal-aware job scheduling has focused on the spatial aspect of job scheduling, i.e. the server assignment of jobs [1] , [2] , [3]  and  [4] . Spatial thermal-aware job scheduling tries to address the effects of heat recirculation, a common phenomenon which is responsible for much of the energy inefficiency in contemporary data centers. Algorithms such as MinHR [2] and XInt [3] perform thermal-aware spatial job scheduling and manage to reduce the heat recirculation; they can effectively reduce the Supply Heat Index [14] , a metric that describes the energy efficiency of a data center, by more than 15% for job sizes of about half the data center’s capacity [3] . This paper investigates the challenges and benefits of extending the previous work to the temporal dimension, that is, the challenges and benefits of spatio-temporal thermal-aware job scheduling. Usually, HPC data centers contain equipment of various models and manufacturers, with various computing performance and power characteristics. A job is usually submitted with a runtime estimate, which is largely overestimated. The work in this paper leverages the equipment heterogeneity and slack in execution estimates, and shows that thermal-aware spatio-temporal job scheduling can yield a synergistic effect of energy efficiency benefits. For example, one result in this paper shows that spatial-only thermal optimization on an unaltered time schedule has an improvement of about 5% in energy savings, while a thermally optimized spatio-temporal job schedule for that sample can yield over double the savings. The synergy derives from the temporal smoothing of the workload, yielding a large pool of available servers at any time for thermally efficient spatial placement of the jobs. A real-world example that can benefit from spatio-temporal thermal-aware job scheduling is the weekend effect , where a burst of jobs is submitted on a Friday night and results are collected on Monday morning, causes inefficiency in data centers; using the common first-come first-serve with back-filling ( FCFS-backfill ) policy, a scheduler will cause a period of high and cooling-expensive data center utilization, followed by an energy-wasting period of idle servers. The weekend effect can be addressed with spatio-temporal thermal-aware job scheduling which is aware of the execution times and distributes the workload over the entire weekend thus achieving energy savings.