We introduce a DNA encoding method to represent numerical values and a biased molecular algorithm based on the thermodynamic properties of DNA. DNA strands are designed to encode real values by variation of their melting temperatures. The thermodynamic properties of DNA are used for effective local search of optimal solutions using biochemical techniques, such as denaturation temperature gradient polymerase chain reaction and temperature gradient gel electrophoresis. The proposed method was successfully applied to the traveling salesman problem, an instance of optimization problems on weighted graphs. This work extends the capability of DNA computing to solving numerical optimization problems, which is contrasted with other DNA computing methods focusing on logical problem solving. Keywords DNA computing ; Melting temperature control encoding method ; Weight representation in DNA ; Traveling salesman problem 1. Introduction Deoxyribonucleic acid or DNA plays the role of memory in nature. DNA is the genetic material containing the whole information of an organism to be copied into the next generation of the species. DNA computing is a computational paradigm that uses synthetic (or natural) DNA molecules as information storage media. The techniques of molecular biology, such as polymerase chain reaction (PCR), gel electrophoresis, 2 and enzymatic reactions, are used as computational operators for copying, sorting, and splitting/concatenating the information in the DNA molecules, respectively ( Adleman, 1994 ). Computing with DNA molecules has many advantages over conventional computing methods that utilize solid-state semiconductors. The properties of DNA computing compared with conventional computers are summarized in Table 1 . Though DNA computing performs individual operations slowly, it can execute billions of operations simultaneously. This is contrasted with the electronic digital computers where individual operations are very fast; however, the operations are executed basically sequentially. The massive parallelism of DNA computing comes from the huge number of molecules which chemically interact in a small volume ( Maley, 1998 ). DNA also provides a huge storage capacity since they encode information on the molecular scale. Table 1. DNA computers Conventional computers Storage media Nucleic acids Semiconductors Memory capacity Ultra-high High Operators Biochemical operations Logical (and, or, not) Operation Simultaneous (parallel) Bitwise (sequential) Speed of each operation Slow Fast Process Stochastic Deterministic Full-size table Based on the massive parallelism, many researchers tried to solve a host of difficult problems, especially NP problems ( Ouyang et al., 1997 , Faulhammer et al., 2000  and  Sakamoto et al., 2000 ). NP (nondeterministic polynomial time) problems are a class of mathematical problems which have most likely exponential complexity, for which no efficient solution has been found yet ( Garey and Johnson, 1979 ). Most of the previous researches in DNA computing do not require the consideration of the representation of numerical data in DNA strands ( Adleman, 1994 , Ouyang et al., 1997 , Faulhammer et al., 2000  and  Sakamoto et al., 2000 ). However, many practical applications in the real world involve edge-weighed graph problems. Examples include the shortest path problem, the traveling salesman problem, the minimum spanning tree problem, and the Steiner tree problem ( Garey and Johnson, 1979 ). Therefore, representation of numerical data in DNA strands is an important issue toward expanding the capability of DNA computing to solve numerical optimization problems. There exists previous work to represent the numerical data with DNA, but the results are not satisfactory yet ( Narayanan and Zorbalas, 1998 , Shin et al., 1999  and  Yamamura et al., 2002 ). In this paper, we introduce a novel encoding method that utilizes a temperature gradient to overcome the drawbacks of previous work. The basic idea is to design the sequences so that the DNA strands for higher-cost values have higher melting temperatures than those for lower-cost values. We also suggest a molecular algorithm that includes a modified PCR protocol (more details in Section 3 ), which makes local search around the solution space more efficient and the DNA computing protocol more powerful. The traveling salesman problem (TSP) is used as a test problem for the proposed encoding method and molecular algorithm. TSP is to find a minimum cost (weight) path for a given set of cities (vertices) and roads (edges). The path must begin at a specified city and end there after passing through all the given cites ( Garey and Johnson, 1979 ). TSP problems have also been used extensively for developing novel evolutionary algorithms (see, e.g., Fogel, 2000 and references therein). We solved a TSP instance consisting of 7 cities and 23 roads of five differing cost values as shown in Fig. 1 . Fig. 1.  The 7-city traveling salesman problem solved in this work. The paths start and end with city 0. The circles denote the cities and the arrows represent the roads. The number on each arrow represents the cost on the given road. Figure options The paper is organized as follows. In Section 2 , we describe the DNA encoding scheme. Section 3 describes the molecular algorithm for solving the TSP problem using the encoding scheme. Section 4 describes the experimental details for solving the problem using biochemical operations. Section 5 presents the experimental results and their analysis. Finally, in Section 6 , we draw conclusions.