Password:   Parallel computing provides efficient solutions for combinatorial optimization problem. However, since the communications among computing processes are rather cost-consuming, the actual parallel or distributed algorithm comes with substantial expenditures, such as, hardware, management, and maintenance. In this study, a parallel immune algorithm based on graphic processing unit (GPU) that originally comes to process the computer graphics in display adapter is proposed. Genetic operators and a structure of vaccine taboo list are designed, and the internal memory utility of GPU structure is optimized. To verify the effectiveness and efficiency of the proposed algorithm, various middle-scale traveling salesman problems (TSP) are employed to demonstrate the potential of the proposed techniques. The simulation examples demonstrate that the developed method can greatly improve the computing efficiency for solving the TSP, and the results are more remarkable when the scale of TSP becomes higher. Furthermore, the derived algorithm is verified by a practical application in steel industry that arranges the cold rolling scheduling of a batch of steel coils. Keywords Parallel immune algorithm ; Graphics processing unit ; Traveling salesman problem ; Cold rolling scheduling 1. Introduction Traveling salesman problem (TSP) is one of the most widely studied problems in combinatorial optimization area [13] . Since it has a great significance for many practical applications in engineering, the study of this problem has attracted people from various fields such as artificial intelligence, biology, and operations research. TSP belongs to the typical NP-hard classes, for which people tended to seek an acceptable approach in limited computing time. Also, note that solving the underlying problem will take much more time when the problem scale grows, so it is difficult for the generic algorithms to meet the demands of computing time [17] . The methodologies based on intelligent computing have become the important means for such problem, including genetic algorithm, ant colony optimization, simulated annealing, and etc. [2] , [3] , [5] , [10] , [12] , [13] , [16] , [18] , [19]  and  [22] . The work in [12] described a new hybrid nature inspired approach regarding each individual of the colony as a solution. Although it had a sound global search performance, its traditional version easily comes up against premature convergence in application and has lower efficiency in the stage of evolution. While [19] gave an artificial ant system that could find the shortest path from the food source to nest without using visual cues. In the work of [10] , [12]  and  [19] , the simulated annealing, swarm intelligence and genetic algorithm for TSP were introduced, respectively, which, although can solve TSP by their own characteristics, the common issues they face are the low computing efficiency when the scale of TSP becomes larger. Moreover, [13] modified an immune-inspired self-organizing neural network for the solution of TSP, and proposed the comparison with other neural methods. The simulation results claimed that the developed algorithms could achieve a better performance for the combinatorial optimization. However, with respect to some application problems that could be summarized as the prototypes of TSP, the above intelligent algorithms still exhibit the drawback of low solving efficiency that is often of little help to meet the real-time requirement in practice. Parallel computing is capable of greatly shortening time to give a solution; therefore it has been paid more attention by the researchers. However, the actual parallel or distributed algorithm is generally based on the real devices of computer cluster or multi-core processor. Typically, it was described in [11] that the serial and the parallel implementations of simulated annealing and tabu search for TSP, and the algorithms were run at a multi-processor computer composed of 10 homogeneous 32-bit processors. A cooperative parallel multi-colony ACO was introduced in [19] for TSP on a distributed-memory parallel architecture, and several factors were analyzed that influence the performance of a multi-colony ACO algorithm. The work in [5] reviewed the existing parallel and distributed ACO, and introduced the exchange strategies by organizing the interaction among a group of colonies on PC cluster. And, [15] constructed a tower-like master–slave parallel paradigm for artificial immune systems, in which a parallel immune memory was designed. These parallel algorithms come with the substantial expenditures of hardware investment, resource management, and device maintenance due to the platform of machine clusters. Similarly, the multi-processor technique is also limited by the number of the CPU cores. When the scale of application problem grows, the communication among processors, or between the master and the slave nodes, incurs a significant overhead. Recently, graphic processing unit (GPU), originally designed to support the computer graphics processing, have attracted attentions to be used as the data-parallel processor due to its low hardware cost [14] . GPU-based general purpose computations have been extensively employed for algebraic computation [4] , matrix decomposition [6] , and optimization [20] . Li et al. [7]  and  [8] respectively proposed a fine-grained parallel GA and ACO based on GPU to improve the running time for TSP. Furthermore, a GPU-based immune algorithm was given in [9] , in which the classical crossover and mutation were adopted in evolution. However, the acceleration capacity of the parallelization still could not be well exerted owing to the specific data parallel structure of GPU. In this study, a parallel immune algorithm (PIA) based on GPU structure is proposed for a class of middle-scale TSP, where the parallelized genetic and immune operators are designed. In genetic phase, three operators are combined to substitute the traditional crossover and mutation; while in immune phase, the parallelized vaccine extraction and vaccination are proposed, and the concept of vaccine taboo list is provided to increase the impact of the vaccines on the individuals and enlarge the searching scope. To verify the proposed parallel computing, several typical benchmarks of TSP are used as the simulation instances, and the comparative analysis is also presented by using the intelligent algorithms and their corresponding parallelized versions. For further demonstrating the effectiveness of the proposed low hardware cost PIA, a practical application in steel industry is then provided, in which we consider a production scheduling of cold mill as an industrial example. The running results indicate that the proposed PIA with the low hardware cost achieves the better solving efficiency than existing intelligent algorithms. The rest of this paper is organized as follows. In Section 2 , TSP problem and the corresponding definition of middle-scales type are described, and the parallel immune algorithm is presented, where the genetic and the immune operators are established. Section 3 gives the implementation of the proposed PIA on the GPU structure. The validations of the proposed approach using TSP benchmarks and the industrial application are illustrated in Section 4 . Finally, Section 5 draws the conclusions of this paper.