  In this paper, we proposed a genetic algorithm for the one-commodity pickup-and-delivery traveling salesman problem. In the proposed algorithm, we designed a new tour constructing heuristic to generate the initial population, and proposed a novel pheromone-based crossover operator that utilizes both local and global information to construct offspring. In addition, a local search procedure was embedded into the genetic algorithm to accelerate convergence. The proposed genetic algorithm was tested on benchmark instances with up to 500 customers, and the computational results show that it gives a faster and better convergence than existing heuristics. Keywords Genetic algorithm ; Pickup-and-delivery ; Traveling salesman 1. Introduction The one-commodity pickup-and-delivery traveling salesman problem (1-PDTSP), a new variant of classical traveling salesman problem (TSP), was introduced by Hernández-Pérez and Salazar González (2004a) . In 1-PDTSP, one city acts as a depot, and the other cities are considered customers. These customers can be divided into delivery customers and pickup customers according to the type of service they require. Each delivery/pickup customer requires/provides a given amount of commodity. A vehicle with a given capacity starts at the depot and must visit each customer exactly once. The vehicle capacity must not be exceeded and the total length of the tour should be minimized. More specifically, in 1-PDTSP, the commodity that required by delivery customers is the same that is provided by pickup customers . This means that the commodity collected from a pickup customer can be directly supplied to a delivery customer . Such unique characteristic distinguishes 1-PDTSP from general traveling salesman problem with pickups and deliveries (TSPPD) (e.g. Gendreau, Laporte, & Vigo, 1999 ), where all commodities have to either start from, or end up, at the depot. In practice, the commodity may be milk to be supplied from cow farms to private residences with no special requirements on sources and destinations, or may be money to be moved between branches of a bank ( Hernández-Pérez & Salazar González, 2004a ). After 1-PDTSP was defined by Hernández-Pérez and Salazar González (2004a) , to the best of our knowledge, only three papers have been published that deal with this problem. In Hernández-Pérez and Salazar González (2004a) , a branch-and-cut algorithm was used to solve instances with up to 50 customers. Because 1-PDTSP is NP-hard, exact algorithms are not suitable for solving large instances. Hence, Hernández-Pérez and Salazar González (2004b) put forward two heuristic algorithms, the first of which described a greedy algorithm with a k -optimality criterion, while the second heuristic algorithm was an incomplete optimization algorithm based on the branch-and-cut procedure proposed by Hernández-Pérez and Salazar González (2004a) . Recently, Hernández-Pérez and Salazar González (2007) presented new inequalities for the 1-PDTSP, and implemented an improved branch-and-cut algorithm for it. Hernández-Pérez, Rodríguez-Martín, and Salazar González (2008) proposed a new heuristic that combines the greedy randomized search procedure (GRASP) with variable neighborhood descent (VND) metaheuristics, and found some new best solutions for benchmark instances. In addition, Chalasani and Motwani (1999) studied k -delivery TSP, and this problem can be considered a special case of the 1-PDTSP, where both delivery and pickup amount are equal to one unit. Similar work was done by Anily and Bramel (1999) . Wang, Lim, and Xu (2006) investigated the complexity of this special case and proposed an exact algorithm. In this paper, we use a genetic algorithm (GA) to solve the 1-PDTSP. To our knowledge, this is the first application of GA to the 1-PDTSP and to the TSPPD. In the proposed GA, we implemented a new pheromone-based crossover operator, which utilizes both local and global information, to construct offspring. Local information used here includes edge lengths, adjacency relations and demands of customers, whereas global information is stored as pheromone trails. In addition, we designed a route construction heuristic for 1-PDTSP, which could generate a feasible 1-PDTSP tour with moderate quality. The proposed algorithm was tested on benchmark instances used in Hernández-Pérez et al. (2008) . Experimental results show that our algorithm outperformed existing heuristic algorithms, and new best solutions for almost all larger instances were found. The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 describes the 1-PDTSP in detail, and the proposed GA is presented in Section 3 . Section 4 presents computational results. Finally, Section 5 draws conclusions from this study. 2. The one-commodity pickup-and-delivery traveling salesman problem The one-commodity pickup-and-delivery traveling salesman problem can be defined as follows. Let G  = ( V ,  A ) represent a complete and undirected graph, where V is the customer set (with V  = {1, 2, … ,  n }). Vertex 1 represents the depot, whereas the other vertices i  ∈  V represent the customers, each with an associated non-zero demand q i . If q i  > 0, v i   is a pickup customer, otherwise, it is a delivery customer. The depot would consume or supply the amount that is not supplied or consumed by the customers, so it can be considered a customer with demand q 1 = - ∑ i = 2 n q i . For each arc( i , j ) ϵ  A ( i , j ϵ V ), a non-negative arc cost (or distance), d ij , is also given. A vehicle with capacity Q must visit each customer exactly once, and its capacity must not be exceeded. The 1-PDTSP should determine a tour starting and ending at the depot and having minimum length that is defined as the sum of the costs of the arcs composing it.