  This paper introduces a new heuristic based on Kohonen's self-organizing feature map for the traveling salesman problem with backhauls (TSPB). The TSPB is an extension of the traveling salesman problem in which a set of customers is partitioned into a set of linehaul customers to be visited contiguously at the beginning of the route and a set of backhaul customers to be visited once all linehaul customers have been visited. The major innovation of the proposed heuristic is based on the design of a new network architecture, which consists of two separate chains of neurons. The network evolves into a feasible TSPB tour using four types of interactions: (1) the first chain interacts with the linehaul customers, (2) the second chain interacts with the backhaul customers, (3) the tails of the chains interacts together, and (4) the heads of the two chains interact with the depot. The generated tour is then improved using the 2-opt procedure. The new heuristic is compared to the best available TSPB heuristics in the literature on medium to large-sized instances up to 1000 customers. The computational results demonstrate that the proposed approach is comparable in terms of solution quality and computational requirements. Keywords Asymmetric traveling salesman problem ; Traveling salesman problem with backhaul ; Competitive neural network ; Meta-heuristics ; Self-organizing feature maps ; Variable neighborhood search 1. Introduction We consider an extension of the traveling salesman problem (TSP) known as the traveling salesman problem with backhauls (TSPB), in which a set of customers is partitioned into two subsets: linehaul and backhaul customers. Each linehaul customer requires the delivery of a certain quantity of products from the depot, whereas each backhaul customer requires the collection of a certain quantity of products to the depot. The partition of the set of customers is frequently arising in many practical situations, such as the grocery industry, in which, supermarkets and shops are the linehaul customers, and grocery suppliers are the backhauls customers. The Interstate Commerce Commission estimated a yearly savings of $160 millions in the USA grocery industry due to the introduction of the backhaul customers ( Casco, Golden, & Wasil, 1988 ). Other TSPB applications arise in the automated warehouse routing ( Chisman, 1975 ); in operation sequencing on numerically controlled machines ( Lotkin, 1978 ); in quality stores ( Yano et al., 1987 ) and in children bus transportation ( Mosheiov, 1994 ). The TSPB can be defined as follows. Let G =( V , A ) be a graph, where V ={ v 0 ,…, v n } is the set of nodes and is the set of arcs. It is assumed that the arc ( v i , v j ) is undirected and associated with a cost C ij representing the travel cost/time or distance between customers i and j located at nodes v i and v j , respectively. The node set is partitioned into where v 0 is the depot, is the set of linehaul customers and is the set of backhaul customers . The objective of the TSPB is to find the least cost Hamiltonian cycle on G that starts from v 0 visiting contiguously all customers in and followed by all customers of before returning to the depot. The TSPB belongs to the general class of TSP with precedence constraints. First, it is a special case of the pickup and delivery TSP in which each pickup customer is associated with exactly one delivery customer, the number of pickups equals to the number of deliveries and each pickup must be visited before its associated delivery customer ( Kalantari et al., 1985  and  Renaud et al., 2000 ). Second, it is a special case of the clustered TSP in which V is partitioned into clusters V 1 ,…, V m and the clusters, V i 's can be visited in any order, but the customers in each cluster must be visited contiguously ( Chisman, 1975 , Jongens and Volgenant, 1985  and  Potvin and Guertin, 1996 ). Last, it is a sub-problem in the vehicle routing problem with backhauls in which capacity/time restrictions are imposed on the vehicle visiting the linehaul and backhaul customers ( Anily, 1996 , Osman and Wassan, 2002 , Thangiah et al., 1996  and  Toth and Vigo, 1999 ). For an extensive bibliography on routing problems and their applications, we refer to Laporte and Osman (1995) . The TSPB is NP-hard in the strong sense, since it generalizes the TSP when The TSPB can be transformed into a standard asymmetric TSP by adding an arbitrarily large constant to each C ij where ( v i , v j ) is any arc linking any two sets, { v 0 }, and ( Chisman, 1975 ). Therefore, the asymmetric TSP exact algorithm of Fischetti and Toth (1992) can be used to solve TSPB. However, when n is large solving the TSPB exactly becomes impractical and approximate methods (heuristics/meta-heuristics) must be used ( Osman, 1995 ).