Title: Experience with two parallel programs solving the traveling salesman problem The traveling salesman problem is solved on CM*, a multiprocessor system, using two parallel search programs based on the branch and bound algorithm of Little, Murty, Sweeny and Karel. One of these programs is synchronous and has a master-slave process structure, while the other is asynchronous and has an egalitarian structure. The absolute execution times and the speedups of the two programs differ significantly. Their execution times differ because of the difference in their process structure. Their speedups differ because they require different amounts of computation to solve the same problem. This difference in the amount of computation is explained by their different heuristic granularities. The difference between the speedup of the asynchronous second program and linear speedup is attributed to processors idling owing to resource contention. 6 references. Authors: Mohan, J. Publication Date: 1983-01-01 OSTI Identifier: 5214576 Report Number(s): CONF-8308190- Resource Type: Conference Resource Relation: Conference: 12. IEEE international conference on parallel processing, Bellaire, MI, USA, 21 Aug 1983 Publisher: IEEE Computer Society Press,Silver Spring, MD Country of Publication: United States Language: English Subject: 99 GENERAL AND MISCELLANEOUS//MATHEMATICS, COMPUTING, AND INFORMATION SCIENCE ; ARRAY PROCESSORS ; PARALLEL PROCESSING ; ALGORITHMS ; COMPUTER CODES ; MATHEMATICAL LOGIC ; PROGRAMMING 990200* -- Mathematics & Computers Please see Document Availability for additional information on obtaining the full-text document. Library patrons may search WorldCat to identify libraries that hold this conference proceeding. Have feedback or suggestions for a way to improve these results? ! Citation Formats MLA 0 pages in this document matching the terms " " Search For Terms: Enter terms in the toolbar above to search the full text of this document for pages containing specific keywords. Some links on this page may take you to non-federal websites. Their policies may differ from this site.