Password: This paper focuses on introducing a concept of diversified local search strategy under the scatter search framework for the probabilistic traveling salesman problem (PTSP). Different combinations of three commonly used local search methods in the PTSP, i.e., 1-shift, 2-opt, and 3-opt, were used to investigate its effects. A set of numerical experiments were conducted to test the validity of the proposed strategy based on randomly generated test instances. The numerical results and the permutation test showed that the diversified local search strategy, especially by combining 1-shift and 2-opt algorithms, can most effectively solve the homogeneous and heterogeneous PTSP in most of the tested instances in comparison with the single local search strategy under scatter search framework. Keywords Metaheuristics ; Diversified local search ; Scatter search ; Probabilistic traveling salesman problem ; Permutation test 1. Introduction The probabilistic traveling salesman problem (PTSP), a type of NP-hard problem, is an extension of the well-known traveling salesman problem (TSP), which has been extensively studied in the field of combinatorial optimization. The goal of the TSP is to find the minimum length of a tour to all customers, given the distances between all pairs of customers. The objective of the PTSP is to minimize the expected length of the a priori tour where each customer requires a visit only with a given probability. The a priori tour can be seen as a template for the visiting sequence of all customers. In a given instance, the customers should be visited based on the sequence of the a priori tour while the customers who do not need to be visited will simply be skipped. The TSP can be treated as a special case of the PTSP. The main difference between the PTSP and the TSP is that in the PTSP the probability of each node being visited is between 0.0 and 1.0 while in TSP the probability of each node being visited is 1.0. The PTSP is a basic stochastic optimization problem ( Bertsimas, 1988 , Bertsimas et al., 1990  and  Jaillet, 1985 ). Due to the fact that the element of uncertainty not only exists but also significantly affects the system performance in many real-world transportation and logistic applications, the results from the PTSP can provide insights into research in other probabilistic combinatorial optimization problems. The PTSP can be used to model many real-world applications in logistical and transportation planning, such as daily pickup–delivery services with stochastic demand, job sequencing involving changeover cost, design of retrieval sequences in a warehouse or in a cargo terminal operations, meals on wheels in senior citizen services, trip-chaining activities, vehicle routing problems with stochastic demand, and home delivery service under e-commerce ( Bartholdi and Platzman, 1988 , Bertsimas et al., 1995 , Campbell, 2006 , Jaillet, 1988  and  Tang and Miller-Hooks, 2004 ). The closed form expressions and asymptotic analyses as well as combinatorial properties for computing the a priori expected length of any given PTSP tour were first developed by Jaillet, 1985 , Jaillet, 1987  and  Jaillet, 1988 . By using stochastic integer programming formulation, Laporte et al. (1994) further proposed an algorithm based on an integer L-shaped method to solve 50-node instances. Computational studies of tour construction algorithms (e.g., nearest neighbor, savings approach, spacefilling curve, radial sorting) and local search methods (i.e., 1-shift, 2-opt and 3-opt exchanges), both modified from the TSP, were conducted and analyzed by Bertsimas et al., 1995 , Bertsimas and Howell, 1993 , Bianchi and Campbell, 2007 , Bianchi et al., 2005  and  Rossi and Gavioli, 1987 . Results indicate that among three local search methods (i.e., 1-shift, 2-opt and 3-opt exchanges), the 1-shift algorithm for the most part seems to be the most effective method for the PTSP ( Bertsimas et al., 1995 , Bertsimas and Howell, 1993 , Bianchi et al., 2005  and  Branke and Guntsch, 2004 ). For the past 5 years or so, to efficiently and effectively solve the PTSP, recent studies have focused on adopting new algorithmic approaches based on metaheuristics such as ant colony optimization (ACO) ( Bianchi, 2006 , Bianchi et al., 2002a , Bianchi et al., 2002b  and  Branke and Guntsch, 2004 ), evolutionary algorithm ( Liu et al., 2007 ), genetic algorithm ( Liu et al., 2004 ), simulated annealing ( Bowler et al., 2003 ), threshold accepting ( Tang and Miller-Hooks, 2004 ), and scatter search ( Liu, 2006  and  Liu, 2007 ). For the metaheuristic method which iteratively searches for the optimal solution the concept of diversification has recently been adopted to improve the effectiveness of the algorithms. For example, scatter search ( Glover et al., 2003 , Laguna and Martí, 2003  and  Lin et al., 2007 ) addressed the diversity of the reference set (a collection of high quality and diverse solutions) and used it to create the new solutions. Variable neighborhood search (VNS) explored diversified neighborhood from the current solution ( Hansen and Mladenović, 2001 ). Gendron et al. (2002) used the diversification strategy to provide various starting solutions for the following local search phase. Ishibuchi and Shibata (2004) emphasized the effects of embedding the notion of diversification on the mating scheme during the execution of evolutionary multiobjective optimization. These studies have shown the promising results of introducing diversification into the solution framework. Since the scatter search has been validated as an effective method for solving the PTSP ( Liu, 2006  and  Liu, 2007 ), and inspired by the effectiveness of introducing the concept of diversification into metaheuristic methods, this study intends to further investigate another dimension of diversification by stochastically using different combinations of local search methods (i.e., 1-shift, 2-opt, and 3-opt exchanges) under the scatter search framework. To investigate the potential of incorporating the element of diversification into the local search scheme, a set of test instances for both the homogeneous and heterogeneous PTSP are randomly generated for comparison purposes. The comparative results obtained can substantiate the potential of the diversified local search strategy in solving the PTSP. The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. In the next section, expressions for exactly and approximately evaluating the a priori tour for the PTSP are introduced. The details of the proposed algorithmic procedure for the PTSP are then described. The results of the numerical experiments are presented and discussed in the next section, followed by concluding comments. 2. Definition and evaluation of the PTSP The PTSP is defined on a directed graph G : = ( V ,  E ), where V : = {0,  v 1 ,  v 2 , … ,  v n } is the set of nodes or vertices, and E  ⊆  V  ×  V is the set of directed edges. Node 0 represents the depot with the presence probability of 1.0. Each non-depot node v i is associated with a presence probability p i that represents the possibility that node v i will be present in a given realization. Given a directed graph G , the PTSP is to find an a priori tour with minimal expected length in G . Based on the values of presence probability ( p i ) of non-depot nodes, two types of PTSP can be classified – the heterogeneous and homogeneous PTSPs. In the homogeneous PTSP, the presence probabilities of non-depot nodes are all equal ( p i  =  p for every non-depot node v i ); in the heterogeneous PTSP, these probabilities are not necessarily the same.