Password: The probabilistic traveling salesman problem with deadlines (PTSPD) is an extension of the well-known probabilistic traveling salesman problem in which, in addition to stochastic presence, customers must also be visited before a known deadline. For realistically sized instances, the problem is impossible to solve exactly, and local-search methods struggle due to the time required to evaluate the objective function. Because computing the deadline violations is the most time consuming part of the objective, we focus on developing approximations for the computation of deadline violations. These approximations can be imbedded in a variety of local-search methods, and we perform experiments comparing their performance using a 1-shift neighborhood. These computational experiments show that the approximation methods lead to significant runtime improvements without loss in quality. Keywords Traveling salesman problem ; Deadlines ; Heuristics ; Stochastic 1. Introduction Whether they are called expedited, express, or time-definite delivery, there is no question that these services now dominate the delivery business. The most common example of these services is the next-day package delivery featured by United Parcel Service (UPS) and FedEx, who offer a choice of deadlines such as 10 am, noon, or 3 pm for these deliveries. Such time-definite services have grown from just 4% of the parcel delivery market in 1977 to over 60% in 2002 [1] . The market for all time-definite cargo was expected to grow by 7.6% in 2006 [2] , and the growth is expected to continue. The growth in time-definite services has created a challenge for many delivery providers. Many are struggling with how to create routes that satisfy time guarantees yet remain cost efficient. In [3] , we introduced the probabilistic traveling salesman problem with deadlines (PTSPD) to address the need for time-definite routing in an a priori routing environment. An a priori, or pre-planned, route is a route which specifies an ordering of all possible customers that a particular driver may need to visit. The driver then skips those customers on the route who do not receive a delivery. These a priori routes are commonly used in the package express industry because of technology limitations as well as hidden costs associated with daily reoptimization [4] . Even for companies with the appropriate information and computing technologies, a priori routes are appealing because they are easily implementable. A priori routes offer both drivers and customers consistency and help to improve driver efficiency as the driver becomes increasingly familiar with the route [5]  and  [6] . Formally, the PTSPD is the problem of finding a minimum expected cost a priori tour through a set of customers N={i|1,…,n} N = { i | 1 , … , n } with probabilities P={p i |1,…,n} P = { p i | 1 , … , n } of requiring service on any given day. Associated with each customer i∈N i ∈ N is a known deadline l i l i . The travel time between any two customers i and j   is given by d ij d ij , where d ij =d ji d ij = d ji , and travel times are assumed to satisfy the triangle inequality. While our computational experiments in [3] demonstrate the expected cost savings possible from modeling a time-constrained a priori routing problem with probabilistic information, they also show that, like many stochastic problems, the probabilistic model requires significant computation time to solve. To solve problems such as these, many researchers turn to local-search heuristics. Due to the expense of evaluating the objective function, however, using these local-search techniques alone are not computationally efficient mechanisms for solving the PTSPD. As shown in [3] , in computing the expected cost of a tour, the greatest portion of the computational effort is in computing the deadline violations. Due to the probabilistic nature of the objective function, evaluating a small change in an a priori route, such as in local-search procedures, can easily be as expensive as evaluating the cost of the full objective function. Consequently, we focus on techniques for approximating the violation portion of the objective function. These approximations can be imbedded in a variety of local-search methods. These ideas differ from many of the solution approaches for the PTSP that rely on exact computation of expected solution values, even when they are obtained using heuristics. We present three methods for reducing the computation time required for the determining deadlines violations while still preserving solution quality. It is important to note that the presented approximations methods are not specific to the PTSPD. Rather, they have application in any discrete-time problem in which the timing of events is stochastic. Our three approximation methods are expected arrival time, temporal aggregation, and truncation. As the name implies, the expected arrival time approximation measures deadline violations only by the expected arrival time to a customer. The temporal aggregation scheme simplifies computation by measuring time in units larger than those in which the penalty is defined. Finally, the truncation approximation computes arrival time probabilities, and thus violations, for a limited set of customers when evaluating the cost of neighboring tours. The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 summarizes related literature. Section 3 introduces a formal model for the PTSPD, and Section 4 discusses the proposed approaches for improving computational efficiency within a local-search framework. In Section 5 , we detail the design of our computational experiments, and in Section 6 , we present the results of our experiments. Section 7 considers the effectiveness of our solution approaches in the context of a fixed-charge penalty for lateness. Finally, Section 8 presents insights and future work. 2. Literature review The research presented in this paper focuses on a problem in which customer presence on the tour is random. In an early treatment of stochastic routing, Bartholdi et al. [7] introduce a space-filling curve heuristic for constructing a priori tours for meals-on-wheels routing. Jaillet [8] formally introduces the PTSP and demonstrates some interesting properties of optimal tours including the fact that such a tour may intersect itself. Jaillet [9] provides a formulation for the expected value of a tour and bounds the relationship between optimal PTSP and TSP solutions. Laporte et al. [10] provide an exact algorithm for the PTSP. As indicated in Section 1 , this exact approach is limited to small problem sizes, so much of the PTSP literature focuses on heuristic approaches. Bertsimas et al. [11] discuss space-filling curve and iterative heuristics. Bertsimas and Howell [12] and Chervi [13] introduce equations for efficiently evaluating the cost of local-search moves for the PTSP. Bianchi et al. [14] and Bianchi and Campbell [15] provide corrections for the equations in Bertsimas and Howell and in Chervi, respectively. Recent work by Campbell [16] and Tang and Miller-Hooks [17] focuses on approximations for the PTSP. Overviews of the research in this area can be found in Powell et al. [18] , Bertsimas and Simchi-Levi [19] , and Gendreau et al. [20] .