  We propose a new formulation for the asymmetric traveling salesman problem, with and without precedence relationships, which employs a polynomial number of subtour elimination constraints that imply an exponential subset of certain relaxed Dantzig–Fulkerson–Johnson subtour constraints. Promising computational results are presented, particularly in the presence of precedence constraints. Keywords Asymmetric traveling salesman problem ; Precedence constraints ; Subtour elimination constraints 1. Introduction The traveling salesman problem (TSP) is perhaps the most widely researched combinatorial optimization problem. The TSP can be stated as follows: Given a finite set of cities N ={1,2,…, n } and the cost of travel c ij between each pair of cities i , j ∈ N , find a tour that visits each city exactly once, while minimizing the total cost of travel. In this paper, we address the asymmetric traveling salesman problem (ATSP) for which c ij and c ji might differ for any pair i , j ∈ N . Mathematical programming formulations for the ATSP involve the assignment constraints along with subtour elimination constraints (SECs), besides the binary restrictions on the decision variables (see [5] , [10] , [11]  and  [12] ). In this paper, we present a new formulation for ATSP based on modeling the subtour elimination constraints using a polynomial number of restrictions that imply an exponential subset of certain relaxed Dantzig–Fulkerson–Johnson (DFJ) [5] subtour elimination constraints. We establish the validity of this formulation and show that it is tighter than a similar ATSP formulation recently proposed by Gouveia and Pires [8]  and  [9] . (In the sequel, the formulation by Gouveia and Pires is referred to as RMTZ, as in their paper.) Furthermore, we provide an extension of the proposed formulation to model the precedence constrained asymmetric traveling salesman problem (PCATSP), also known as the sequential ordering problem (see [1] , [3]  and  [7] ). As the name suggests, the PCATSP is similar to the ATSP except for some additional precedence constraints that require certain cities to be visited before others. In addition to comparisons with the RMTZ model, we present computational results to compare the linear programming relaxations and the branch-and-bound effort required for our formulation with that of the lifted Miller–Tucker–Zemlin (MTZ) [11] formulations of Desrochers and Laporte (DL) [6] and Sherali and Driscoll (SD) [13] (both of which imply the DFJ two-city SECs), as well as for these lifted MTZ formulations that additionally incorporate the DFJ three-city SECs. The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. In Section 2 , we present the proposed formulations for ATSP and PCATSP, and establish their validity and relationship with the formulation of Gouveia and Pires [8]  and  [9] . We also derive certain valid lifted inequalities that serve to tighten these proposed formulations. In Section 3 , we present the results of our experimentation, in which we compare the LP relaxation bounds and branch-and-bound effort of the proposed formulations with that of other well-known formulations in the literature. We conclude in Section 4 with some recommendations for future research. 2. Proposed formulation: ATSPxy To present the new formulation for the ATSP, let us designate city 1 as the base city, and define the familiar assignment binary variables , as follows: In addition, we define another set of continuous variables , which nonetheless have a binary connotation, as follows: Accordingly, consider the following model for the ATSP, which is justified in the sequel.