This paper presents a technique that uses the Wang recurrent neural network with the “Winner Takes All” principle to solve the traveling salesman problem (TSP). When the Wang neural network presents solutions for the assignment problem with all constraints satisfied, the “Winner Takes All” principle is applied to the values in the neural network's decision variables, with the additional constraint that the new solution must form a feasible route for the TSP. The results from this new technique are compared to other heuristics (SOM, SA and heuristics of remotion and insertion of arcs), with data from the traveling salesman problem library (TSPLIB). The 2-opt local search technique is applied to the final solutions of the proposed technique and shows a considerable improvement of the results. The advantages of this new technique are the easy computational implementation, the low computational complexity, the good results obtained and the possibility of solving symmetrical and asymmetrical problems with the same technique. Keywords Recurrent neural network ; Traveling salesman problem ; Assignment problem 1. Introduction The traveling salesman problem (TSP) is a classical problem of combinatorial optimization of Operations Research's area. The purpose is to find a minimum total cost Hamiltonian cycle [2] . There are several practical uses for this problem, such as vehicle routing (with the additional constraints of vehicle's route, such as capacity's vehicles) [12] and drilling problems [16] . This problem has been used during the last years as a comparison basis for improving several optimization techniques, such as genetic algorithms [1] , simulated annealing [6] , Tabu search [15] , local search [5] , ant colony [7] and neural networks [13] , the latter used in this work. The principal types of neural network used to solve the TSP are: Hopfield's recurrent networks [22] and Kohonen's self-organizing maps [13] . In a Hopfield's network, the main idea is to automatically find a solution for the TSP by means of a balanced state of the equation system defined for the TSP. By using Kohonen's maps for the TSP, the final route is determined through those neurons that have weights that are closer to the pair of coordinates ascribed to each city in the problem. The Wang recurrent neural network (WRNN) with the “Winner Takes All” (WTA) principle [18] can be applied to solve the TSP, solving this problem as if it was an assignment problem (AP) by means of the WRNN. Furthermore, using the WTA principle on the solutions found with the WRNN, with the constraint that the solutions found must form a feasible route for the TSP. The parameters used for the WRNN are those that show the best solutions for the AP. The technique proposed in this work (WRNN+WTA) can be used to solve AP, where the optimal solution is found in 92% of the tested matrices, as can be seen in Ref. [18] . Moreover, our technique always found feasible solutions and reduces the number of iterations for WRNN technique in 99%. The average of iterations to solve AP with WRNN is 4463, and with WRNN+WTA is 41, in problems with dimensions varying of 3×3 until 20×20 [18] . Other vantages of our technique are the easy implementation, the computational complexity of O( n 2 + n ) [21] that is considered low and competitive compared to other methods presented in this work [13] , besides the possibility of solve symmetrical as well as asymmetrical problems with the same technique. The solutions found with the technique proposed in this work are compared with the solutions from the self-organizing maps (SOM) and the simulated annealing (SA) for the symmetrical TSP, and with other heuristics for the asymmetrical TSP. The 2-opt local search technique [5] is used to improve the solutions found with the technique proposed in this work. The data used for the comparisons are from the TSPLIB database [17] . This paper is divided into six sections, including this introduction. In Section 2 , the TSP is defined. In Section 3 , the WRNN and the WTA principle are presented. In Section 4 , the use of the technique proposed in this work is demonstrated through a TSP example that includes 10 cities. In Section 5 , the results of the proposed technique are presented and comparisons between this technique and other heuristics known in the literature are made. In Section 6 , the work's conclusions are presented.