Password: We study the hybridization of the self-organizing map (SOM) in an evolutionary algorithm to solve the Euclidean traveling salesman problem (TSP). The evolutionary dynamics consist of interleaving the SOM execution with a mapping operator, a fitness evaluation and a selection operator. SOM and mapping operators have a similar structure based on closest point findings and simple moves performed in the plane. We evaluate the approach on standard TSP test problems and show that it performs better, with respect to solution quality and/or computation time, than other neural network approaches given previously in the literature. Experiments are conducted on 91 publicly available TSP instances with up to 85 900 cities. Keywords Neural network ; Self-organizing map ; Evolutionary algorithm ; Memetic algorithm ; Euclidean traveling salesman problem 1. Introduction A classical and widely studied combinatorial optimization problem is the Euclidean traveling salesman problem (TSP). The problem consists of finding the shortest tour that visits a number of N cities where the cities are points in the plane and where the distance between cities is given by the Euclidean metric. The TSP has been the subject of extensive research since more than three decades. The problem is NP-complete [4]  and  [40] . Hence, for large TSP instances with a size higher than 1000 cities, for which exact methods find optimal tours within a dramatic increase of computation time, the approaches that are able to generate near-optimal tours in reasonable time are heuristics. Heuristics are methods which have a statistical or an empirical guaranty of finding good solutions, but which have no mathematical proofs of their effectiveness yet. In that point, they differ from approximation algorithms [4] . As presented in [26] , heuristics can be construction algorithms or local optimization heuristics as 2-Opt, 3-Opt or Lin and Kernighan procedure. They can be instances of metaheuristics as for example evolutionary algorithms (EA), tabu search, simulated annealing or ant colony systems. They can be neural network (NN) approaches as well. It is worth noting that, for example as a result of the DIMACS TSP challenge [27] , the oldest Lin and Kernighan (LK) [32] heuristic as implemented recently by Helsgaun [24] is one of the most effective methods when considering the tradeoff between solution quality and computation time. Based on the extended surveys of Johnson and McGeoch [26]  and  [27] , the metaheuristics-based code look to be all dominated by the 3-Opt, Lin and Kernighan or iterated Lin and Kernighan (ILK) heuristics appears. However, the design and implementation of classical Operations Research (OR) heuristics is not trivial. As mentioned in [24] about the LK procedure, there are many implementation and design decisions to be made that have a huge influence on performances. Here, we shall focus on heuristics that follow a metaphor within biologic systems that exhibit a high degree of intrinsic parallelism and that are considered intuitive and easy to implement. The paper focuses on the improvement of neural network applications to the TSP by hybridization with an evolutionary algorithm. Mainly, two types of neural networks are applied to the TSP. They are the Hopfield model, which is considered to perform poorly on large size instances [44] , and the self-organizing map (SOM) approach [28] , similar to the elastic net [18] , that can tackle large size instances. When applied in the plane, SOM is a visual pattern that adapts and modifies its shape according to some underlying distribution. Many papers on the SOM application to the TSP have been published since two decades as reported in [11] , which is one of the most extensive surveys on this subject. Generally, these approaches are based on a complex modification of the SOM internal learning law. Here, to apply the SOM to the TSP and to improve performances as well, the SOM execution interleaves with other processes or operators following the evolutionary method. In practice, hybridization of optimization methods is often compelling. It is a common and promising practice to use a population-based heuristic incorporating a neighborhood search. Examples of such methods are multiple ant systems [22] , multi-start or restart approaches [7]  and  [43] , as well as memetic algorithms [10] , [30] , [34]  and  [37] , also known under the appellation of genetic local search [38] . Memetic algorithms are hybrid evolutionary algorithms, combining the advantage of heuristics within a population-based search. They take their denomination from cultural evolution, where “memes” are units of information that evolve during life and replicate by knowledge transmission. The idea of embedding a heuristic into an EA is not new and has already been applied to some TSP local search algorithms such as 2-Opt, 3-Opt, and Lin-Kernighan [19] , [35]  and  [39] . Compared to other metaheuristic approaches, memetic algorithms seem to be superior. However, very few memetic approaches appear to be competitive with the Helsgaun implementation of the LK heuristic [24] in terms of both computation time and solution quality. As far as we know, these approaches are the recent memetic algorithm of Nguyen et al. [39] , and to a less extent the one of Merz and Freisleben [35] , both of which already include LK as a main embedded local search. The simpler ILK heuristic appears to be the better choice if good solutions are required in a short time. Successive generations of construction heuristics, improvement heuristics and metaheuristics were developed by the OR community to solve the TSP. Metaheuristics often encapsulate a construction method followed by the application of one or more improvement heuristics (local search). From stage to stage, such heuristics were enriched reusing the past enhancements to build new sophisticated neighborhood search structures, which operate on graphs. Here, we follow an analogous idea, but focus on neural networks as internal operators. More precisely, we focus on NN models which have a natural geometric interpretation such as the SOM. The standard SOM [28]  and  [29] is used in this paper as a main operator embedded into an EA framework and combined with a mapping, fitness evaluation and selection operator. Such operators perform elementary moves in the plane in a massively parallel fashion and then, are different in “spirit” than the classical neighborhood operators of operations research. The approach is called memetic SOM by analogy to the memetic algorithm. The goals are to better exploit the natural properties of the SOM, to improve its performances and to extend its applicability to more complex problems of terrestrial transportation. Also, an important point of using an evolutionary framework is to allow simplicity and flexibility when designing the algorithm. We applied already the approach to an extension and combination of the Euclidean k-median problem with the classical vehicle routing problem [13]  and  [14] . It consists of positioning bus stops, called cluster centers, according to customer locations (k-median problem), and generating vehicle routes among bus stops. Bus stops define clusters where customers are grouped and where they have to walk to take the bus. Also, [12] is an extension of the vehicle routing problem with time windows [45] considering some walking distances from customers to bus stops. Here, we focus on the TSP and apply the approach to large instances with up to 85 900 cities. We claim that the memetic SOM is more simple and flexible than other SOM-based approaches since the latter are based on a complex modification of the learning law and add several new parameters. Operators can be designed independently and then combined. Furthermore, since the communication times at the level of selection are relatively small, the long running times of independent SOM processes favor parallel execution of the method. We compare the memetic SOM approach with some of the best-performing neural network applications to the Euclidean TSP [11] , [25]  and  [31] . Experiments are conducted on 91 National TSP's ( http://www.math.princeton.edu/tsp/world/countries.html ) and TSPLIB [42] instances with up to 85 900 cities. We will try to show that by using the standard SOM in the evolutionary framework, and not a complex and specific version for the TSP, one can obtain solutions with much better quality, spending less or a similar computation time. Mainly, it appears that the approach competes with the Co-Adaptive Net [11] , which is the previous winner of the neural network approaches to the TSP, with respect to solution quality and/or computation time. Consequently, it dominates all neural network approaches to the TSP presented in the literature. The paper is organized as follows: Section 2 presents the principle of the method, and Section 3 presents the standard Kohonen's self-organizing map. Section 4 presents a research overview of SOM applications to the TSP. Section 5 presents the memetic SOM approach. Section 6 reports the parameter setting and the experimental analysis of the algorithm. Section 7 reports a comparative study with other approaches of the literature on great size instances. The last section is devoted to the conclusion and further research.