Password: The Probabilistic Traveling Salesman Problem (PTSP) is a variation of the classic Traveling Salesman Problem (TSP) and one of the most significant stochastic routing problems. In the PTSP, only a subset of potential customers need to be visited on any given instance of the problem. The number of customers to be visited each time is a random variable. In this paper, a new hybrid algorithmic nature inspired approach based on Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO), Greedy Randomized Adaptive Search Procedure (GRASP) and Expanding Neighborhood Search (ENS) Strategy is proposed for the solution of the PTSP. The proposed algorithm is tested on numerous benchmark problems from TSPLIB with very satisfactory results. Comparisons with the classic GRASP algorithm, the classic PSO and with a Tabu Search algorithm are also presented. Also, a comparison is performed with the results of a number of implementations of the Ant Colony Optimization algorithm from the literature and in 13 out of 20 cases the proposed algorithm gives a new best solution. Keywords Particle swarm optimization ; Expanding Neighborhood Search-GRASP ; Metaheuristics ; Probabilistic Traveling Salesman Problem 1. Introduction During the last decade nature inspired intelligence became increasingly popular. Among the most popular nature inspired approaches, when the task is optimization within complex domains of data or information, are those methods representing successful animal and micro-organism team behavior, such as swarm or flocking intelligence (bird flocks or fish schools inspired Particle Swarm Optimization, PSO), artificial immune systems (that mimic the biological one), optimized performance of bees, or ant colonies (ants foraging behaviors gave rise to Ant Colony Optimization, ACO), etc. PSO is a population-based swarm intelligence algorithm that was originally proposed by Kennedy and Eberhart [29] . PSO is inspired by the behavior of social organisms, and the physical movements of individuals in a swarm. PSO includes elements of exploration and exploitation (or local and global search). Most applications of PSO have concentrated on the optimization in continuous space while some work has been done to the discrete optimization [30]  and  [45] . Recent comprehensive surveys for PSO can be found in [3] , [4]  and  [40] . PSO is a very popular optimization method and its wide use, mainly during the last years, is due to the number of advantages that this method has compared to other optimization methods. Some of the key advantages are that this method does not need the calculation of derivatives that the knowledge of good solutions is retained by all particles and that particles in the swarm share information between them. PSO is less sensitive to the nature of the objective function, can be used for stochastic objective functions and is less likely to get stuck in local minima. Concerning its implementation, PSO can easily be programmed and has few parameters to regulate. Usually, in PSO-based algorithms only one swarm is used. Recently, a number of works have been conducted that use more than one swarm either using the classic PSO [16] , [39]  and  [47] or using some variations of the classic PSO like the method called TRIBES [19] . These methods have more exploration and exploitation abilities due to the fact that the different swarms have the possibility to explore different parts of the solution space. In this paper, we demonstrate how a nature inspired intelligent technique, the PSO [29] , and two metaheuristic techniques, the Greedy Randomized Adaptive Search Procedure (GRASP) [43] and the Expanding Neighborhood Search (ENS) [37] can be incorporated in a hybrid scheme, in order to give very good solutions for the Probabilistic Traveling Salesman Problem (PTSP). In the proposed Hybrid Multi-Swarm Particle Swarm Optimization (HybMSPSO) algorithm more than one swarm is used. The main difference of this algorithm from the other algorithms that use more than one swarm is a feedback procedure that is used in order to, initially, distribute the information (i.e., the good solutions of each swarm) in all other swarms and, afterwards, to help all the particles of all swarms to follow this information in order to finally find a new better solution. Another goal of our research is to achieve as good as possible results in a very short computational time. This goal led us to use two different procedures one as a speeding up technique (the ENS) and one for the production of as good as possible initial solutions (the ENS-GRASP). Thus, the combination of a PSO algorithm with a very fast local search strategy, like the ENS strategy [37]  and  [38] , will lead to a very fast and efficient algorithm and will reduce, significantly, the computational time of the algorithm. This makes the algorithm suitable for solving very large scale PTSPs in short computational time. The rest of the paper is organized as follows: in the next section a description of the PTSP is presented. In the third section, the proposed algorithm, the HybMSPSO algorithm is presented and analyzed in detail. Computational results are presented and analyzed in the fourth section while in the last section conclusions and future research are given. 2. The Probabilistic Traveling Salesman Problem The PTSP is an extension of the well-known TSP, which has been extensively studied in the field of combinatorial optimization. The PTSP is perhaps the most fundamental stochastic routing problem that can be defined [41] . It was introduced in 1985 by Jaillet in his PhD thesis [26] . Some theoretical properties of the PTSP derived in [26] have been later published in [27] . In the PTSP, a demand at each node occurs (with probability p p ), or does not occur (with probability 1-p 1 - p ) during a given day. The main difference of the PTSP from the TSP is that while in the TSP the objective is to find the shortest tour through all the cities such that no city is visited twice and the salesman returns at the end of the tour back to the starting city, in the PTSP the objective is to minimize the expected length of the a priori tour where each customer requires a visit only with a given probability. The a priori tour can be seen as a template for the visiting sequence of all customers. In a given instance, the customers should be visited based on the sequence of the a priori tour while the customers that do not need to be visited will simply be skipped [34] . The PTSP belongs to the class of NP-hard problems [5] . This means that no polynomial time algorithm is known for its solution. Thus, there is a great need for powerful heuristics that find good suboptimal solutions in reasonable amounts of time.