  In this survey, a classification of 24 asymmetric traveling salesman problem (ATSP) formulations is presented. The strength of their LP relaxations is discussed and known relationships from the literature are reviewed. Some new relationships are also introduced, and computational results are reported. Keywords Integer linear programming ; Asymmetric traveling salesman problem ; Formulations ; Projections 1. Introduction The asymmetric traveling salesman problem   (ATSP) is defined on a directed graph G=(V,A) G = ( V , A ) , where V={1,…,n} V = { 1 , … , n } is the vertex set, A={(i,j):i,j∈V} A = { ( i , j ) : i , j ∈ V } is the arc set, and a non-symmetric cost matrix (c ij ) ( c ij ) is defined on A   . To simplify the notation, we associate variables to arcs (i,i) ( i , i ) but we force these variables to be equal to 0 by setting c ii =∞ c ii = ∞ . The ATSP consists of determining a least cost Hamiltonian circuit or tour over G . The problem is commonly interpreted as that of determining an optimal salesman's tour over n cities. The ATSP is NP-hard even if the costs are Euclidean [1] . As is the case with most combinatorial optimization problems, exact algorithms for the ATSP combine polyhedral results with enumeration. The efficiency of the enumeration depends on the strength of the LP (or linear) relaxation of a given formulation. It is possible to state that given two formulations, the one yielding the larger relaxation value is better. The strengths of LP relaxations, or equivalently the strengths of two formulations, can also be compared by using polyhedral information. Suppose two different formulations F 1 F 1 and F 2 F 2 are stated in the same space of variables x∈R p x ∈ R p and the objective is to minimize. Let P(F 1 ) P ( F 1 ) and P(F 2 ) P ( F 2 ) be the polyhedra associated with these formulations. If P(F 1 )⊂P(F 2 ) P ( F 1 ) ⊂ P ( F 2 ) , then F 1 F 1 is a better formulation than F 2 F 2 since the lower bound obtained by solving the LP relaxation of F 1 F 1 is at least equal to the one obtained by solving the LP relaxation of F 2 F 2 .