  We propose a novel approach for solving large scale traveling salesman problems (TSPs) by chaotic dynamics. First, we realize the tabu search on a neural network, by utilizing the refractory effects as the tabu effects. Then, we extend it to a chaotic neural network version. We propose two types of chaotic searching methods, which are based on two different tabu searches. While the first one requires neurons of the order of n 2 for an n -city TSP, the second one requires only n neurons. Moreover, an automatic parameter tuning method of our chaotic neural network is presented for easy application to various problems. Last, we show that our method with n neurons is applicable to large TSPs such as an 85,900-city problem and exhibits better performance than the conventional stochastic searches and the tabu searches. Keywords Chaotic neural networks ; Combinatorial optimization problems ; Traveling salesman problems ; Tabu search Nomenclature D 0 ( t ) the length of the tour at time t D ij ( t ) the length of the tour realized by applying a 2-opt exchange, which links cities i and j ( Fig. 1 ), to the tour at time t Fig. 1.  the gain of the objective function value (tour length) offered by the 2-opt exchange which links cities i and j , namely, Δ ij ( t )= D 0 ( t )− D ij ( t ) β the scaling parameter of the gain effect k r the decay parameter of the tabu effect α the scaling parameter of the tabu effect x ij ( t ) the output of the ( i , j )th neuron at time t ξ ij ( t ) the internal state of the ( i , j )th neuron at time t corresponding to the gain effect ζ ij ( t ) the internal state of the ( i , j )th neuron at time t corresponding to the tabu effect s the tabu list size a ( i ) the city which is visited next to the city i θ , R positive biases B the target value of the standard deviation of the gain effect in the controlling method N f ( t ) the number of firing neurons at time t F r ( t ) a variable for controlling the mean of the input term C The traveling salesman problem (TSP) is one of the typical NP-hard combinatorial optimization problems, which is described as follows: given positions of cities, find the minimum length tour which visits each city exactly once ( Lawler, Lenstra, Rinnooy Kan, & Shmoys, 1985 ). Although this problem is easy to describe, it is very difficult to solve if one tries to solve large size problems. Actually, the maximum size of the problem which has exactly been solved is 15,112 ( Applegate et al., 1995  and  Applegate et al., on line ), but this requires too heavy calculation. In the case of applications to real-world problems in engineering, industrial applications and so on, it is essentially important to develop heuristic algorithms for finding very good near optimum solutions in reasonable time than finding the exact ones. There are various heuristic approaches for finding such very good near optimum solutions. Among them, an approach which utilizes chaotic neurodynamics ( Aihara, 1990  and  Aihara et al., 1990 ) for combinatorial optimization problems has recently been proposed ( Nozawa, 1992 ), and its effectiveness has been shown ( Chen and Aihara, 1995 , Hasegawa et al., 1995 , Ishii and Satoh, 1997 , Nozawa, 1992  and  Yamada and Aihara, 1997 ). This chaotic neurodynamical approach was based on the architecture of the Hopfield–Tank neural network ( Hopfield & Tank, 1985 ). The Hopfield–Tank neural network has gradient dynamics with an energy function which is defined with connection weights between neurons and thresholds of neurons. The decreasing property of this energy function is applicable to combinatorial optimization problems. However, since it has only decreasing dynamics, the Hopfield–Tank neural network approach has a serious local minimum problem. The chaotic dynamics has been introduced in order to overcome this local minimum problem and to realize efficient search ( Aihara, 1990 , Chen and Aihara, 1995 , Hasegawa et al., 1995 , Ishii and Satoh, 1997 , Nozawa, 1992  and  Yamada and Aihara, 1997 ). The chaotic dynamics is very complicated, and it has several characteristic properties. One of them is self-similarity, which indicates that attractors of chaotic dynamical systems usually have fractal structures. Then, the chaotic dynamics searches solutions only along such a fractal attractor possibly with zero Lebesgue measure in a state space. Therefore, the chaotic search is expected to be efficient, if good solutions are embedded in a searching region. On the other hand, stochastic methods search solutions without such a deterministic structure. Thus, the chaotic search can be more efficient than the stochastic searches in this sense. Moreover, Chen and Aihara, 1999  and  Chen and Aihara, 2000 showed that every solution including the optimum one can be included in a strange attractor of the chaotic neural network under some conditions. Therefore, this kind of dynamics of the chaotic neural network may be very effective for searching of the solutions of combinatorial optimization problems if the structure of a strange attractor can be appropriately designed.