  We address in this paper the one-commodity pickup-and-delivery traveling salesman problem, which is characterized by a set of customers, each of them supplying (pickup customer) or demanding (delivery customer) a given amount of a single product. The objective is to design a minimum cost Hamiltonian route for a capacitated vehicle in order to transport the product from the pickup to the delivery customers. The vehicle starts the route from a depot, and its initial load also has to be determined. We propose a hybrid algorithm that combines the GRASP and VND metaheuristics. Our heuristic is compared with other approximate algorithms described in Hernández-Pérez and Salazar-González [Heuristics for the one-commodity pickup-and-delivery traveling salesman problem. Transportation Science 2004;38:245–55]. Computational experiments on benchmark instances reveal that our hybrid method yields better results than the previously proposed approaches. Keywords Pickup and delivery ; Traveling salesman problem ; Hybrid heuristic ; GRASP ; VND 1. Introduction The one-commodity pickup-and-delivery traveling salesman problem (1-PDTSP) is a routing problem that generalizes the classical traveling salesman problem (TSP). We are given a set of locations and the travel distances among them. One specific location is considered to be a vehicle depot , while all the others are identified with customers . There is a unique commodity or product that has to be transported from some customers to others. To this end, each customer is visited once by the vehicle. Customers are divided into two groups, depending on whether they supply a given amount of product ( pickup customers ) or they demand a given amount of it ( delivery customers ). The product collected at pickup customers can be supplied to delivery customers. Moreover, the vehicle has a known capacity, and it must start and end its route at the depot. The 1-PDTSP consists of finding a minimum length Hamiltonian route for the vehicle that satisfies all the customer requirements. It is not assumed that the vehicle leaves empty or full loaded from the depot. On the contrary, the initial load of the vehicle also has to be determined (see [1] ). We will assume that the travel distances among locations are symmetric. The 1-PDTSP has several practical applications in routing a single commodity. One of them is described by Anily and Bramel [2] in the context of inventory repositioning. Consider a set retailers owned by the same firm and located at different sites in a region. At a given moment, due to the random nature of demands, some retailers may have an excess of inventory while others are in need of additional stock. Then, the firm may decide to transfer inventory from the first group of retailers to the second one. Determining the cheapest Hamiltonian route to do so with a capacitated vehicle is exactly the 1-PDTSP. Anily and Bramel [2] propose heuristic algorithms for the special case of the 1-PDTSP where the delivery and pickup quantities are all equal to one unit. This problem is called capacitated TSP with pickups and deliveries . Chalasani and Motwani [3] consider the same problem with the name Q-delivery TSP . The problem with unitary pickups and deliveries on a path or tree network has been studied by Wang et al. [4] . Hernández-Pérez [5] is the first to introduce the 1-PDTSP. He makes a theoretical study of the problem and presents solution methods. Hernández-Pérez and Salazar-González [6] describe an exact branch-and-cut algorithm able to solve instances with up to 60 customers. The same authors propose in [1] two heuristic approaches to deal with larger instances. The first heuristic approach is a simple local search procedure developed to provide initial upper bounds for their branch-and-cut algorithm. The second approach is a more elaborated algorithm based on “incomplete optimization”. That is, the branch-and-cut algorithm described in [6] is applied to a restricted search space obtained by considering only a subset of model variables, associated to promising edges of a graph. Moreover, the branch-and-cut execution is truncated by imposing a limit to the number of levels in the decision tree exploration (see [1] for details). A primal heuristic is also embedded in the branch-and-cut to build feasible integer solutions from the information given by the fractional solutions. This procedure is periodically applied during the search process. There are many other pickup-and-delivery routing problems described in the literature. For recent surveys, we refer the reader to Savelsbergh and Sol [7] , Parragh et al. [8]  and  [9] , and Berbeglia et al. [10] . However, as observed in [9] , little attention has been paid to the 1-PDTSP. As far as we know, the only heuristic approaches are those in [1] , none of these is a metaheuristic. The 1-PDTSP is NP NP -hard since it coincides with the TSP when the vehicle capacity is large enough. Even more, the problem of checking the existence of a feasible solution is NP NP -complete in the strong sense (see [5] ). This is a fundamental difference with respect to the TSP, as even just finding a feasible tour may be a very complex task. In this article we present a hybrid heuristic method that combines a greedy randomized adaptive search procedure (GRASP) with variable neighborhood descent (VND). The proposed algorithm is compared with the heuristic methods described in [1] . The outcomes of the computational tests show that the new heuristic yields better results than the previous ones, managing to improve the best known solution for most large instances.