  We analyse an approach to the TSP, introduced by Punnen (Research Report, University of New Brunswick, St. John, Canada, 1996), which is a generalization of approaches by Sarvanov and Doroshko (In: Software: Algorithms and Programs, Math. Inst. Belorusian Acad. Sci., Minsk, No. 31, 1981: 11–13) and Gutin (In: Proceedings of the USSR Conference System Res., Moscow: 1984: 184–185). We show that Punnen’s approach allows one to find the best among tours in the TSP with n cities ( n is even) in O ( n 3 ) time. We describe an O ( n 1+ β )-time algorithm (for any β∈(0,2] ) that constructs the best among tours. This algorithm provides low-complexity solutions to a problem by Burkard et al. (In: Proc. IPCO V, Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 1084, Berlin: Springer, 1996: 490–504) and may be quite useful for large-scale instances of the TSP. We also show that for every positive integer r there exists an O ( r 5 n )-time algorithm that finds the best among tours. This improves a result of Balas and Simonetti (Management Sci. Res. Report MSRR-617, Canegve Mellon University, Pittsburgh, 1996) who showed that the best among tours can be obtained in time O ( r 2 2 r n ). Scope and purpose While exact algorithms can only be used for solving small or quite moderate instances of the traveling salesman problem (TSP), local search remains the main practical tool for finding near-optimal solutions for large-scale instances. Exponential neighbourhood local search (ENLS) is a relatively new direction in local search for the TSP. In ENLS, one finds the best among very large, exponential, number of tours. Computational experiments reported by several researches demonstrate a very high potential of ENLS. In the present paper, we analyse theoretical properties of some exponential neighbourhoods. Keywords Traveling salesman problem ; Local search ; Neighbourhoods E-mail: z.g.gutin@brunel.ac.uk. 1 G. Gutin completed his Ph.D. under supervision of Professor N. Alon in School of Mathematics. Tel Aviv University. He has been a visiting member of Department of Mathematics and Computer Science, Odense University, Denmark. Now he is a lecturer at Department of Mathematics and Statistics, Brunel University, UK. His research interests include combinatorial optimization and graph theory. Copyright © 1999 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.