Password: This paper presents the model, solution method, and system developed and implemented for hot rolling production scheduling. The project is part of a large-scale effort to upgrade production and operations management systems of major iron and steel companies in China. Hot rolling production involves sequence dependent setup costs. Traditionally the production is scheduled using a greedy serial method and the setup cost is very high. In this study we propose a parallel strategy to model the scheduling problem and solve it using a new modified genetic algorithm (MGA). Combing the model and man–machine interactive method, a scheduling system is developed. The result of one year’s running in Shanghai Baoshan Iron & Steel Complex shows 20% improvement over the previous manual based system. As the company is one of the largest steel companies and the most modernized one in China, the successful application of the scheduling system in this company sets an example for other steel companies which have more potentials for improvement. Keywords Iron and steel industry ; Hot rolling production ; Scheduling ; Multiple traveling salesman problem ; Genetic algorithms (GAs) 1. Introduction Iron and steel industry is essential for any industrial economy, providing the most important materials for other industries. It also often serves as a driving force for the whole industrial development. This is especially the case for rapidly developing economies. An example in the 1970s and 1980s was South Korea which had rapid development of its steel industry during the period and became one of the newly industrialized countries. For the last 20 years, China has been leading the world in steel production growth with a remarkable speed. Its steel production increased quickly from 37 million tons in 1980 to 61 million tons in 1989. By then, researchers still doubted that an adjusted target of 90 million tons by the year 2000 could be reached [1] . However, when its production reached 81 million tons in 1992, it was believed that the original goal of 100 million tons by the year 2000 was readily obtainable [2] . In 1996, its production already reached 100 million tons [3] , four years ahead of the plan. Such a rapid growth in steel production has provided strong support for its massive construction projects and high-speed growth of its manufacturing industries. In recent years, other developing countries such as India and Brazil have also set ambitious goals for their steel industries as an important part of their economic development plans. On the other hand, steel industry is capital and energy intensive while developing countries often face shortages of these resources. Therefore, at the same time of increasing steel production capacities, it is critical for these countries to best utilize their existing capacities. One important way to achieve this is through effective production scheduling. The benefits of using an effective scheduling method include considerable improvement in production efficiency and product quality, and great reduction in production cost. In this paper we present the model, solution method, and system developed and implemented for hot rolling production scheduling in Shanghai Baoshan Iron & Steel Complex. In iron and steel industry, the hot strip mill is often considered the bottleneck of the overall production process. Production sequencing of steel orders through the hot rolling mill is the key to the hot strip mill production scheduling. To ensure product quality, smooth thickness or gauge transitions from order to order and a gradual width decreasing pattern are necessary in the rolling process. Setup is required for dramatic transitions. The continuous production between two setups is called a turn. Scheduling the orders on the hot strip rolling mill for a production shift is to form the production turns and arrange the sequence for rolling the individual orders in each turn, considering the constraints of the mill. The objective is to minimize transition (setup) cost in the production sequence. Traditionally the problem is solved through sequentially arranging each turn by selecting orders from those unscheduled. This is a greedy method considering only local optimum for one turn at a time. It normally results in large setup costs for later arranged turns. To achieve more effective hot roll production and reduce setup cost, we propose a parallel strategy in this paper to simultaneously schedule multiple turns for the whole shift from a global optimal view. Using the proposed parallel strategy, the hot rolling scheduling problem is modeled as a multiple traveling salesman problem (MTSP) based on actual production constraints. To solve the problem, the MTSP model is then converted into a single traveling salesman problem (TSP) model. A modified genetic algorithm (MGA) is constructed to obtain a near-optimal solution to the TSP. A new selection rule is introduced to the crossover operation (seed based crossover) in the MGA framework. Combining the proposed MTSP model and the MGA procedure with man–machine interactive method, a practical hot rolling scheduling system is developed and implemented in Shanghai Baoshan Iron & Steel Complex. The rest of this paper is organized as follows. Previous related work and the current status of hot strip rolling mill scheduling research are first reviewed in Section 2 . Section 3 describes the hot strip rolling production process and scheduling constraints. The parallel modeling strategy and its advantages over the serial one are presented in Section 4 . In Section 5 , the MTSP model for rolling scheduling using the parallel strategy is established. The MGA applied to hot rolling scheduling is presented in Section 6 . Section 7 reports computer experiments using actual production data and the implementation of the hot rolling scheduling system. Section 8 gives the conclusions. 2. Literature review Solving production operational management problems in steel rolling mills is an important research topic and has been widely explored recently. At present, research on hot rolling scheduling mainly adopts the following three types of methods: (1) operations research methods, (2) artificial intelligence (AI) methods, and (3) human–machine coordination methods. 2.1. Operations research based methods This type of methods usually establishes optimization models for the hot rolling production planning and scheduling problem and obtains the optimal solutions by means of accurate algorithms or near-optimal solutions by heuristic algorithms. Redwine and Wismer [4] proposed an off-line iron and steel production planning and scheduling model based on the mathematical programming and found solutions to the problem through dynamic programming algorithm. Wright et al. [5] formulated a multi-objective mathematical model for scheduling the hot rolling sequences to minimize penalties as well as deviations from target delivery dates over the course of a campaign. While this model addresses both the campaign scheduling problem and turn scheduling problem, it is too large to be solved using known algorithms. For the hot strip scheduling problems in the given rolling plans, Jacobs and Wright [6] provided a goal programming model and the related algorithms. This system selects orders from order book, based upon expected revenue and inventory considerations, and places them in appropriate turns within a campaign. The system does not, however, explicitly consider the sequence in which orders within these turns are scheduled and does not explicitly consider the reduction of roller wear. Balas and Martin [7] reduced the hot rolling production scheduling problems to the knapsack constraint problems and prize collecting TSP models. For a single roll scheduling, they designed the Roll-A-Round program. Peterson et al. [8] addressed the material flow scheduling problem and time rhythm linkage from the heat furnace to the hot rolling mill (HRM) and built a multi-objective mathematical programming model and constructed effective heuristic algorithms. Kosiba et al. [9] investigated the hot strip sequencing problem and established a TSP model. However, this model only solved the single roll scheduling (turn) problem. Assaf et al. [10] addressed the steel production scheduling problem for IPSCON rolling mill and reheating furnace in Canada and developed an enumeration based optimization algorithm. 2.2. AI based methods Hot rolling scheduling involves many practical constraints and is traditionally done by human schedulers. The quality of the schedules depends very much on the experience of the scheduler. AI based methods are considered suitable for problems with these features. The main benefits of applying AI include (1) they can handle complex constraints and generate feasible solutions, and (2) they are designed to utilize the human schedulers’ experiences in the form of expert knowledge. Since these methods simulate human schedulers’ decision process, the resulting schedules are easily acceptable though not optimized. AI methods used in hot rolling scheduling can be divided into (1) expert system methods and (2) constraint satisfaction methods. 2.2.1. Expert system based methods In recent years, expert systems have found a wide range of applications in the iron and steel production scheduling. The work by Sato et al. [11] was an early attempt to solve the iron and steel production scheduling problems using expert systems. Arizono et al. [12] have developed an expert system to improve the schedules which are heuristically generated using conventional methods. Lassila et al. [13] described a knowledge-based production scheduling system built for the plate rolling mill of a large finish steel manufacture. 2.2.2. Constraint satisfaction methods Constraint satisfaction problem (CSP) is an important branch of AI, which focuses on finding a feasible solution satisfying the constraints rather than the optimal solution. In view of the fact that the iron and steel planning and scheduling problems comprise complex constraints, it is hard to find the optimal solution to them. According to the actual demands, for most of the production scheduling problems, the constraint priority observes the following patterns: first, the rigid constraints in the production process is considered, then the related flexible constraints, and finally the optimality of the solution.