计算机学报 　 Chinese Journal of Computers     Full Text   Title An Improved Evolutionary Algorithm for the Traveling Salesman Problem   Authors CAI Zhi-Hua1) PENG Jin-Guo1) GAO Wei1) WEI Wei1) KANG Li-Shan1)，2)   Address 1)(School of Computer Science and Technology, China University of Geosciences, Wuhan 430074) 2)(State Key Laboratory of Software Engineering, Wuhan University, Wuhan 430072)   Year 2005   Issue No.5(823―828)   Abstract &   Background TSP(Traveling Salesman Problem) is one of the typical NP-hard problems in combinational optimization, and evolutionary algorithm is a more efficient and more effective for solving combinational optimization problem. This paper gives two operators, mapping operator and optimal operator, then proposes some control strategies, finally proposes an improved evolutionary algorithm based on Guotao algorithm for solving TSP. First four TSP instances are used to test the algorithm, then some standard test-instances are tested. Especially, authors test the CHN144 (Chinese 144 cities). The result,30353.860997, outperforms those from existing literatures,30354.3(from Wu),30355.01(from Zhu). keywords traveling salesman problem；evolutionary algorithm；operator background TSP(Traveling Salesman Problem) is a famous NP-hard problem. There are many algorithms have been proposed for solving this problem, for example, ant colony algorithm based partition algorithm, filled function method, gene-based genetic algorithm, etc. A class powerful algorithm for solving TSP are evolutionary algorithms. They are stochastic search algorithms that are inspired by models of biological evolution, and Guotao’s Inver-order algorithm for the TSP has been demonstrated that is the one of the more famous evolutionary algorithm based on GuoTao algorithm(GT). In this paper, authors first design mapping and optimal operators, and propose some control strategies. Then an improved GuoTao algorithm (IGT) for TSP is proposed. This algorithm is tested on some standard test instances. The results show that the algorithm presented in this paper is more efficient and more effective than existing algorithms for TSP, and it can be easily and directly generalized to solve other NP-hard combinatorial optimization problems. The research is supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China under grant No