Password:   The multiple traveling salesman problem (mTSP) is a generalization of the well-known traveling salesman problem (TSP), where more than one salesman is allowed to be used in the solution. Moreover, the characteristics of the mTSP seem more appropriate for real-life applications, and it is also possible to extend the problem to a wide variety of vehicle routing problems (VRPs) by incorporating some additional side constraints. Although there exists a wide body of the literature for the TSP and the VRP, the mTSP has not received the same amount of attention. The purpose of this survey is to review the problem and its practical applications, to highlight some formulations and to describe exact and heuristic solution procedures proposed for this problem. Keywords Multiple traveling salesman ; Survey 1. Introduction A generalization of the well-known traveling salesman problem (TSP) is the multiple traveling salesman problem (mTSP), which consists of determining a set of routes for m salesmen who all start from and turn back to a home city (depot). Although the TSP has received a great deal of attention, the research on the mTSP is limited. The purpose of this paper is to review the existing literature on the mTSP, with an emphasis on practical applications, integer programming formulations (ILPFs) and solution procedures devised specifically for this problem. The rest of the paper will proceed as follows: The following section formally defines the problem and presents some important variations. Section 3 describes practical applications of the mTSP reported in the literature and explores its connections with other type of problems. Integer programming formulations, exact and heuristic solution procedures are presented in Sections 4 – 6 , respectively. Section 7 describes the transformation-based approaches to solve the problem. Finally, Section 8 presents some concluding results and further remarks. 2. Problem definition and variations The mTSP can in general be defined as follows: Given a set of nodes, let there be m salesmen located at a single depot node . The remaining nodes (cities) that are to be visited are called intermediate node s. Then, the mTSP consists of finding tours for all m salesmen, who all start and end at the depot, such that each intermediate node is visited exactly once and the total cost of visiting all nodes is minimized. The cost metric can be defined in terms of distance, time, etc. Possible variations of the problem are as follows: • Single vs. multiple depots : In the single depot case, all salesmen start from and end their tours at a single point. On the other hand, if there exist multiple depots with a number of salesman located at each, the salesmen can either return to their original depot after completing their tour or return to any depot with the restriction that the initial number of salesmen at each depot remains the same after all the travel. The former is referred as the fixed destination case whereas the latter is named as the nonfixed destination case. • Number of salesmen : The number of salesman in the problem may be a bounded variable or fixed a priori. • Fixed charges : When the number of salesmen in the problem is not fixed, then each salesman usually has an associated fixed cost incurring whenever this salesman is used in the solution. In this case, the minimization of the number of salesman to be activated in the solution may also be of concern. • Time windows : In this variation, certain nodes need to be visited in specific time periods, named as time windows . This is an important extension of the mTSP and referred to as the multiple traveling salesman problem with time windows (mTSPTW). The mTSPTW has immediate applications in school bus, ship and airline scheduling problems. • Other special restrictions : These restrictions may consist of bounds on the number of nodes each salesman visits, the maximum or minimum distance a salesman travels or other special constraints. The mTSP can be considered as a relaxation of the VRP, with the capacity restrictions removed. This means that all the formulations and solution approaches proposed for the VRP are also valid and applicable to the mTSP, by assigning sufficiently large capacities to the salesmen (vehicles). However, as this review is for the mTSP only, we will not describe the existing research on the VRP. The reader is referred to the book of Toth and Vigo [1] for a detailed treatment of the subject. On the other hand, when there is only a single salesman, then the mTSP reduces to the well-known TSP, for which an extensive amount of research exists (e.g. [2] , [3] , [4]  and  [5] ). Since the TSP is a special case of the mTSP, all the formulations and algorithms described in this paper are also valid for the former problem. In this paper, we will only concentrate on the research tailored specifically for the mTSP. The following section describes some applications to demonstrate the practical importance of the problem. 3. Applications and connections with other problems This section is further subdivided into three parts. The first part describes the main practical applications of the mTSP. The second part points out the relationships of the mTSP with other problems. The third part specifically deals with the connections between the mTSP and the well-known VRP. 3.1. Main applications Compared to the TSP, the mTSP is more adequate to model real life situations, since it is capable of handling more than one salesman. These situations arise mostly in various routing and scheduling problems. Some reported applications are presented below. (1) Print press scheduling : One of the primary applications of the mTSP, given by Gorenstein [6] , arises in scheduling a printing press for a periodical with multi-editions. Here, there exist five pairs of cylinders between which the paper rolls and both sides of a page are printed simultaneously. There exist three kind of forms, namely 4-, 6- and 8-page forms, which are used to print the editions. The scheduling problem consists of deciding which form will be on which run and the length of each run. In the mTSP vocabulary, the plate change costs are the inter-city costs. In a similar context, the mTSP can also be used to develop a production schedule for pre-printed insert advertisements for newspapers, as recently pointed out by Carter and Ragsdale [7] . In this problem, advertisers are to insert specific advertisements into or deliver with the newspaper, for distribution to different geographical regions. Each specific region receives the same set of advertisements. In the mTSP context, the regions correspond to the cities and each production line corresponds to a salesman. (2) Crew scheduling : Svestka and Huckfeldt [8] report an application for deposit carrying between different branch banks. Here, deposits need to be picked up at branch banks and returned to the central office by a crew of messengers. The problem is to determine the routes of messengers with a total minimum cost. Lenstra and Rinnooy Kan [9] describe two similar applications, where the first application consists of finding the routes of a technical crew, which has to visit telephone boxes in North Holland. The second application involves designing the routes of vehicles to visit 200 mailboxes in Utrecht, such that the number of vehicles used is minimum. Another application of the mTSP in crew scheduling is reported by Zhang et al. [10] , who investigate the problem of scheduling multiple teams of photographers to a large number of elementary and secondary schools. (3) School bus routing problem : The problem of scheduling buses is investigated by Angel et al. [11] as a variation of the mTSP with some side constraints. The objective of the scheduling is to obtain a bus loading pattern such that the number of routes is minimized, the total distance travelled by all buses is kept at minimum, no bus is overloaded and the time required to traverse any route does not exceed a maximum allowed policy. (4) Interview scheduling : Gilbert and Hofstra [12] describe an application of a multiperiod variation of the mTSP, where the problem arises in scheduling interviews between tour brokers and vendors of the tourism industry. Each broker corresponds to a salesman who must visit a specified set of vendor booths, which are represented by a set of T cities. (5) Mission planning : Mission planning generally arises in the context of autonomous mobile robots, where a variety of applications include construction, military reconnaissance, warehouse automation, post-office automation and planetary exploration. The mission plan consists of determining the optimal path for each robot to accomplish the goals of the mission in the smallest possible time. The mission planner uses a variation of the mTSP where there are n robots, m goals which must be visited by some robot, and a base city to which all robots must eventually return. The application of the mTSP in mission planning is reported by Brummit and Stentz [13] and in unstructured environments by Brummit and Stentz [14] . Planning of autonomous robots is modelled as a variant of the mTSP by Yu et al. [15] in the field of cooperative robotics. Similarly, the routing problems arising in the planning of unmanned aerial vehicle applications, as investigated by Ryan et al. [16] , can be modelled as an mTSP with time windows. (6) Hot rolling scheduling : In the iron and steel industry, orders must be scheduled on the hot strip rolling mill for a production shift such that the total transition (setup) cost in the production sequence is minimized. A recent application of modelling such a problem encountered in an iron and steel complex in China as an mTSP is given by Tang et al. [17] . Here, the orders correspond to the cities and the distance between two cities is the penalty cost for production changeover between two orders. The solution of the model will yield a complete schedule for the hot strip rolling mill. (7) Design of global navigation satellite system surveying networks : A very recent and an interesting application of the mTSP, as investigated by Saleh and Chelouah [18] arises in the design of global navigation satellite system (GNSS) surveying networks. A GNSS is a space-based satellite system which provides coverage for all locations worldwide and are quite crucial in real-life applications such as early warning and management for disasters, environment and agriculture monitoring, etc. The goal of surveying is to determine the geographical positions of unknown points on and above the earth using satellite equipment. These points, on which receivers are placed, are co-ordinated by a series of observation sessions. When there are multiple receivers or multiple working periods, the problem of finding the best order of sessions for the receivers can be formulated as an mTSP. For technical details, the reader is referred to Saleh and Chelouah [18] .