  We recently developed a new randomized optimization framework, the Nested Partitions (NP) method. This approach uses partitioning, global random sampling, and local search heuristics to create a Markov chain that has global optima as its absorbing states. This new method combines global and local search in a natural way and it is highly matched to emerging massively parallel processing capabilities. In this paper, we apply the NP method to the Travelling Salesman Problem . Preliminary numerical results show that the NP method generates high-quality solutions compared to well-known heuristic methods, and that it can be a very promising alternative for finding a solution to the TSP. Scope and purpose The traveling salesman problem involves finding the shortest route between a number of cities. This route must visit each of the cities exactly once and begin and finish in the same city. As easy as it is to describe, this problem is notoriously difficult to solve. It is widely believed that there is no efficient algorithm that can solve it accurately. On the other hand, this problem is very important since it has many applications in such areas as routing robots through automatic warehouses and drilling holes in printed circuit boards. We present a new method, the Nested Partitions method, for solving the traveling salesman problem. The method is very flexible in that it is capable of finding good solutions rapidly and given enough time will identify the optimal solution. This new method is also highly matched with parallel processing capabilities. Keywords Optimization ; Randomized algorithm ; Parallel algorithm ; Traveling salesman problem Corresponding author 1 Leyuan Shi is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Industrial Engineering at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. She holds a B.S. degree in Mathematics from Nanjing Normal University, China, an M.S. degree in Applied Mathematics from Tsinghua University, China, and an M.S. and a Ph.D. degrees in Applied Mathematics from Harvard University. Dr. Shi has published in the Journal of Discrete Event Dynamic Systems, IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, European Journal of Operational Research, Journal of Internetworking: Research and Experience, and Mathematic Numerica Sinica. Her research interests include modeling, analysis, and optimization of discrete event systems, discrete-event simulation, and sensitivity analysis. 2 Sigurdur Ólafsson is a Ph.D. student in the Department of Industrial Engineering at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. He received a B.S. in Mathematics from the University of Iceland, and an M.S. in Industrial Engineering from the University of Wisconsin–Madison. His research interests include stochastic optimization and simulation. 3 Ning Sun is currently a Ph.D. student in the Department of Industrial Engineering at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. She received her B.S. in Control Engineering from Tsinghua University, and an M.S. in Industrial Engineering from the University of Wisconsin–Madison. Her research interersts include combinatorial and parallel optimization. Copyright © 1999 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.