  In this study, a new mutation operator has been developed to increase Genetic Algorithm (GA) performance to find the shortest distance in the known Traveling Salesman Problem (TSP). We called this method as Greedy Sub Tour Mutation (GSTM). There exist two different greedy search methods and a component that provides a distortion in this new operator. The developed GSTM operator was tested with simple GA mutation operators in 14 different TSP examples selected from TSPLIB. The application of this GSTM operator gives much more effective results regarding to the best and average error values. The GSTM operator used with simple GAs decreases the best error values according to the other mutation operators with the ratio of between 74.24% and 88.32% and average error values between 59.42% and 79.51%. Keywords Genetic Algorithm ; Mutation operator ; Greedy methods ; Traveling Salesman Problem ; Optimization 1. Introduction Traveling Salesman Problem (TSP) is most widely studied combinational optimization problem ( Helsgaun, 2000 ). TSP is based upon the defining of a salesman’s closed shortest tour that will be between n cities. The salesman has to visit every city once and return to the starting city in a shortest way. If ( dist ( c i ,  c j )) represents the distance between traveled cities and the coordinates ( c i x i ,  c i y ) of all cities ( c i ) that the salesman will visit is known, then total distance of implemented tour ( f ) can be described by; equation ( 1 ) equation ( 2 ) f = ∑ i = 1 n - 1 d ( T [ i ] , T [ i + 1 ] ) + d ( T [ n ] , T [ 1 ] ) Performance of TSP resolving process is evaluated by taking into account two parameters. These parameters are solution time and error value. Nowadays for TSP the solutions that have several percentage low error value and are produced quickly can be accepted as approximate. There exist some intuitive methods for finding approximate solutions ( Dorigo and Gambardella, 1997 , Jayalakshmi et al., 2001 , Misevicius, 2004 , Schleuter, 1997 , Seo and Moon, 2002  and  Stützle and Hoos, 1997 ). In contrast to exact algorithms the approximate algorithms obtain good solutions but do not guarantee for finding optimal solutions. These algorithms are usually very simple and have relatively short running times. Some of the algorithms give solutions that differ in average only by a few percent from the optimal solution. Therefore, if a small deviation from optimum can be accepted, it may be appropriate to use an approximate algorithm ( Albayrak, 2008  and  Helsgaun, 2000 ). In this study, a new mutation operator has been developed to increase application performance of GA on TSP and this operator was compared with other GA mutation operators. The rest of the paper is organized as follows: in Section 2 , GA is examined and related background theory is presented. In Section 3 , developed Greedy Sub Tour Mutation (GSTM) operator is described. In Section 4 , experimental results are evaluated. In the final, this study is concluded. 2. Genetic Algorithms Genetic Algorithm (GA) that is developed by Holland (1975) , is a type of directed random search algorithm and recursive search technique based on natural election used in computing to find approximate solutions for optimization and search problems ( Genetic Algorithms, 2009  and  Holland, 1975 ). Main aim of GA is to achieve better results by removing bad results during production of population from current generation to next generation and using only good results to achieve the better results. Here, the fitness function ( f ( x )) that defines what is the “better” has to be prepared very carefully depending on the problem. Possible solutions in GA are presented by chromosomes and generally the first solutions are produced randomly. Chromosomes (individuals) together generate a set of solution populations. The fitness function formed properly to the problem, presents a solution quality of the individuals. To produce new and good solutions, GA uses operators such as selection, crossover and mutation. To produce new generation crossover and mutation operators are applied on the two individuals that are selected from population by selection mechanism. The basic steps to follow for solution of a problem by GA are shown in Fig. 1 . Fig. 1. 