Password: This paper presents a new heuristic method called randomized gravitational emulation search (RGES) algorithm for solving symmetric traveling salesman problems (STSP). This algorithm is found upon introducing randomization concept along with the two of the four primary parameters ‘velocity’ and ‘gravity’ in physics through swapping in terms of groups by using random numbers in the existing local search algorithm GELS in order to avoid local minima and thus can yield global minimum for STSP. To validate the proposed method numerous simulations were conducted to compare the quality of solutions with other existing algorithms like genetic algorithm (GA), simulated annealing (SA), hill climbing (HC), etc., using a range of STSP benchmark problems. According to the results of the simulations, the performance of RGES is found significantly enhanced and provided optimal solutions in almost all test problems of sizes up to 76. Also a comparative computational study of 11 chosen benchmark problems from TSPLIB library shows that this RGES algorithm is an efficient tool of solving STSP and this heuristic is competitive with other heuristics too. Keywords Symmetric traveling salesman problem ; Velocity ; Gravitational force ; Newton’s law ; Swapping 1. Scope and purpose Many and varied are the applications of STSP. To name a few Scheduling problems, vehicle routing problems [9] , mixed Chinese postman problems, integrated circuit board chip insertion problem [4] , printed circuit board punching sequence problems [12] and a wing-nozzle design problem in the aircraft design are worth mentioning. Although there exists several heuristic procedures and branch and bound algorithms for it, this problem is still a difficult NP-complete problem. The main purpose of this paper is to enhance the GELS algorithm to a Global Algorithm by introducing randomization concept in the available parameters of GELS and to show its effectiveness. A justification is also given for the improvement of the GELS through the results, by solving STSP of various sizes from 5 to 76. Improvement of GELS through randomization has also been established by making a comparative study of other available heuristic algorithms too. The table showing the results of 11 chosen(for brevity) benchmark problems from TSPLIB library ensure the efficiency of RGES. 2.1. NP complete problems There is a class of problems, which have not been theoretically proved to have exponential complexities, but no polynomial algorithms have been designed. Some problems (which are known as NP complete problems) are: traveling salesman problem, problem of Hamiltonian paths, knapsack problem, problem of optimal graph coloring. If a polynomial solution could be found for any of these problems, then all of the NP problems would have polynomial solutions. NP complete problems are described in more detail in [8] , [10] , [11]  and  [13] . 2.2. A brief survey of algorithms for solving traveling salesman problem The traveling salesman problem is a well-known Combinatorial optimization problem, in which the salesman wants to minimize the total distance traveled to visit all cities in his visiting list. Direct search algorithms of exponential complexity, which give optimal solutions, but are applicable only for a small number of nodes, are available in literature. Not many heuristic algorithms of polynomial complexity, which give solutions near optimal, but are applicable for large number of nodes are found in literature. The symmetric version of the traveling salesman problem, in which bi-directional distances between a pair of cities are identical, has been studied by many researchers and the understanding of the polyhedral structure of the problem has made it possible to optimally solve large size problems [10] . Nonetheless, efforts to develop good heuristic procedures have continued because of their practical importance in quickly obtaining approximate solutions of large size problems. Heuristic methods such as the K-opt heuristic by Lin and Kernighan [11] and the Or-opt heuristic by Or [13] are well known for the symmetric traveling salesman problem. There also have been a few attempts to solve it by various meta-heuristics such as tabu searches [8]  and  [19] and genetic algorithms [3] , [5] , [14] , [15]  and  [17] . Interestingly, Brest and Zerovnik [2] report that a heuristic algorithm, based on ‘arbitrary insertion’, performs remarkably well on benchmark test problems in terms of both solution quality and computation time. Karp [7] also presents a heuristic, patching algorithm, and shows that the heuristic solution asymptotically converges to the optimal solution of the asymmetric TSP. 2.3. Optimum solution algorithm and heuristic methods Backtracking can search all possible tours. This method has small memory requirements, but largest execution time. For example, for 20 nodes graph, execution time would be several millenniums. Other famous algorithm available in literature are dynamic programming, branch and bound method, etc., Prim or Kruskal algorithm gives us solutions to STSP which is not more than twice of optimal solution length. It’s applicability is bounded only to Euclidean TSP. This algorithm works in polynomial time. This paper is organized as follows. In Section 3 , Mathematical description of STSP is discussed brief. In Section 4 , a brief description of GELS algorithm proposed by Webster is provided. In Section 5 , the RGES algorithm, based on GELS with concept of randomization is described and a rationale for its anticipated good performance is provided. In Section 6 , results of computational experiments are given, solution quality is tabulated, efficiency of the algorithm is established through comparative study, parameters used in various algorithms are tabulated and algorithm features are elaborated. Finally, Section 7 includes merits and concluding remarks. 3. Description of a STSP