  This paper introduces a new hybrid algorithmic nature inspired approach based on Honey Bees Mating Optimization for successfully solving the Euclidean Traveling Salesman Problem. The proposed algorithm for the solution of the Traveling Salesman Problem, the Honey Bees Mating Optimization (HBMOTSP), combines a Honey Bees Mating Optimization (HBMO) algorithm, the Multiple Phase Neighborhood Search-Greedy Randomized Adaptive Search Procedure (MPNS-GRASP) algorithm and the Expanding Neighborhood Search Strategy. Besides these two procedures, the proposed algorithm has, also, two additional main innovative features compared to other Honey Bees Mating Optimization algorithms concerning the crossover operator and the workers. The main contribution of this paper is that it shows that the HBMO can be used in hybrid synthesis with other metaheuristics for the solution of the TSP with remarkable results both to quality and computational efficiency. The proposed algorithm was tested on a set of 74 benchmark instances from the TSPLIB and in all but eleven instances the best known solution has been found. For the rest instances the quality of the produced solution deviates less than 0.1% from the optimum. Keywords Metaheuristics ; Honey bees mating optimization ; Traveling salesman problem 1. Introduction Several biological and natural processes have been influencing the methodologies in science and technology in an increasing manner in the past years. Feedback control processes, artificial neurons, the DNA molecule description and similar genomics matters, studies of the behaviour of natural immunological systems, and more, represent some of the very successful domains of this kind in a variety of real world applications. During the last decade, nature inspired intelligence has become increasingly popular through the development and utilization of intelligent paradigms in advanced information systems design. Cross-disciplinary team-based thinking attempts to cross-fertilize engineering and life science understanding into advanced inter-operable systems. The methods contribute to technological advances driven by concepts from nature/biology including advances in structural genomics (intelligent drug design through imprecise data bases), mapping of genes to proteins and proteins to genes (one-to-many and many-to-one characteristics of naturally-occurring organisms), modelling of complete cell structures (showing modularity and hierarchy), functional genomics (handling of hybrid sources and heterogeneous and inconsistent origins of disparate databases), self-organization of natural systems, etc. 1 Among the most popular nature inspired approaches, when the task is optimization within complex domains of data or information, are those methods representing successful animal and micro-organism team behaviour, such as: • Swarm or flocking intelligence: Birds flocks or fish schools have inspired Particle Swarm Optimization [42] , • Artificial immune systems: Algorithmic schemes that mimic the characteristics of the biological immune systems [14]  and  [15] , • Ant colonies: Ants’ foraging behavior has given rise to Ant Colony Optimization [18] , etc. A number of nature inspired tools have been used to solve very diverse operations and supply chain management problems, like scheduling, organization of production and vehicle routing problems [68] . In the recent few years, various swarm intelligence algorithms, based on the behaviour of the bees have been presented [9] . These algorithms are mainly divided, in two categories according to their behaviour in the nature, the foraging behaviour and the mating behaviour. The most important approaches that simulate the foraging behaviour of the bees are the Artificial Bee Colony (ABC) Algorithm proposed by Karaboga and Basturk [40]  and  [41] , the Virtual Bee Algorithm proposed by Yang [84] , the Bee Colony Optimization Algorithm proposed by Teodorovic and DellOrco [77] , the BeeHive algorithm proposed by Wedde et al. [83] , the Bee Swarm Optimization Algorithm proposed by Drias et al. [19] and the Bees Algorithm proposed by Pham et al. [63] . The Artificial Bee Colony algorithm [40]  and  [41] is, mainly, applied in continuous optimization problems and simulates the waggled dance behaviour that a swarm of bees performs during the foraging process of the bees. In this algorithm, there are three groups of bees: (1) The employed bees i.e. bees that determine the food source (possible solutions) from a prespecified set of food sources and share this information (waggle dance) with the other bees in the hive, (2) The onlookers bees, i.e. bees that based on the information that they take from the employed bees, search for a better food source in the neighborhood of the memorized food sources, and (3) The scout bees i.e. employed bees whose food source has been abandoned and a new food source search has started (randomly). The Virtual Bee Algorithm [84] is, also, applied in continuous optimization problems. In this algorithm, the population of the bees is associated with a memory, a food source, and, then all the memories communicate between them with a waggle dance procedure. The whole procedure is similar with a genetic algorithm and it has been applied on two function optimization problems with two parameters. In the BeeHive [83] algorithm, a protocol inspired from dance language and foraging behaviour of honey bees is used. In the Bees Swarm Optimization [19] , initially a bee finds an initial solution (food source) and from this solution the other solutions are produced with the use of certain strategies. Then, every bee is assigned in a solution and when the bees accomplish their search, they communicate between them with a waggle dance strategy and the best solution will become the new reference solution. To avoid cycling the authors use a tabu list. In the Bees Algorithm [63] , a population of initial solutions (food sources) are randomly generated. Then, the bees are assigned to the solutions based on their fitness function. The bees return to the hive and based on their food sources a number of bees is assigned to the same food source in order to find a better neighborhood solution. In the Bee Colony Optimization [77] algorithm, a step by step solution is produced by each forager bee and when the foragers return to the hive a waggle dance is performed by each forager. Then the other bees, based on a probability, follow the foragers. This algorithm looks like the Ant Colony Optimization [18] algorithm but it does not use at all the concept of pheromone trails. Contrary to the fact that there are many algorithms that are based on the foraging behaviour of the bees, the main algorithm proposed based on the marriage behaviour is the Honey Bees Mating Optimization algorithm (HBMO), that was presented in [1]  and  [2] . Since then, it has been used on a number of different applications [3] , [21] , [33]  and  [76] . The Honey Bees Mating Optimization algorithm simulates the mating process of the queen of the hive. The mating process of the queen begins when the queen flights away from the nest performing the mating flight during which the drones follow the queen and mate with her in the air [1]  and  [3] . The algorithm is a swarm intelligence algorithm since it uses a swarm of bees where there are three kinds of bees, the queen, the drones and the workers. There is a number of procedures that can be applied inside the swarm. In the Honey Bees Mating Optimization algorithm, the procedure of mating of the queen with the drones is described. First, the queen is flying randomly in the air and, based on her speed and her energy, if she meets a drone then there is a possibility to mate with him. Even if the queen mates with the drone, she does not create directly a brood but stores the genotype of the drone in her spermatheca and the brood is created only when the mating flight has been completed. With the term genotype we mean some of the basic characteristics of the drones, i.e. part of the solution. A crossover operator is used in order to create the broods. In a hive the role of the workers is simply the brood care (i.e. to feed them with the “royal jelly”) and, thus, they are only a local search phase in the Honey Bees Mating Optimization algorithm. Thus, this algorithm combines both the mating process of the queen and one part of the foraging behavior of the honey bees inside the hive. If a brood is better (fittest) than the queen, then this brood replaces the queen.