Password: This paper looks upon the standard genetic algorithm (GA) as an artificial self-organizing process. The authors study in detail some typical self-organizing behaviors exhibited in GAs for solving a traveling salesman problem (TSP). These behaviors include the exponential relationship, entropy jumping phenomenon, assimilation and entropy synchronization. Finally, the authors propose to use ‘doping’ as the measure to prevent the premature convergence in design of the GAs. Keywords Self-organization ; Genetic algorithms ; Optimization ; Traveling salesman problem 1. Introduction It is well known that the genetic algorithms (GAs) search the optimum from a population of points in parallel and possess more chances to find the global optimum than classical optimization methods. The robustness of the search process and the effectiveness of their genetic operators, such as crossover, mutation, and selection, etc., make this method full of vitality. Many of the current engineering problems can apply the GAs, such as function optimization, pattern recognition, signal processing, robotics, feature extraction, etc. The GAs have become one of the basic tools in artificial intelligence together with the expert systems and artificial neural networks. The traveling salesman problem (TSP) has become a typical optimization problem in engineering. We can apply it not only in production scheduling, but also in different paths’ optimization problems. For example, we may use this notion to optimize the measuring paths on coordinate measuring machines for various curved machine parts [1] . It can also be used in the machining path optimization for printed circuit board production [2] , etc. In these problems the measuring heads of coordinate measuring machines or the drilling heads of the drilling machines play the role of the traveling sales person. The solution to the TSP using GAs is a very promising direction. Although some authors [3] correctly pointed out that the GA is a typical self-organizing process, its self-organizing mechanism still remains for further research. This paper considers the GA as an artificial self-organizing process and studies in detail its self-organizing behaviors in solving a typical TSP. These behaviors include the exponential relationship, entropy jumping phenomenon, assimilation and entropy synchronization. Finally, the authors suggest the use of ‘doping’ as the measure to prevent the premature convergence in design of the algorithms. As is well known, the latter always impedes the GAs to find the optimum, and the search will stay on a local optimum. 2. A traveling salesman problem Let us consider there are N cities numbered 1,2,…, N and equally distributed on a circle. A traveling sales person, starting from the city no.1, must travel to all N cities one at a time. Obviously, the shortest traveling path is equal to the total side lengths of the inscribed polygon ( N units). The standard GA to solve this optimization problem first randomly generates a population with a definite number of chromosomes M . Each chromosome represents a possible tour variant of the sales person. We use an M  ×  N matrix G to describe this population as shown in Eq. (1) . Each element in the matrix G represents the city number, or so-called the gene of the chromosomes. Another matrix D with M ·( N −1) elements in Eq. (1) represents the traveling distances between two successive cities predetermined before execution. The row sums in matrix D are the total traveling distances with N units as their optimum. The distribution and the relative difference between the matrices D i and D i+1 in successive generations characterize the quality and effectiveness of a GA. equation ( 1 ) We then apply the genetic operators to these chromosomes in each generation. In addition to ordinary mutation and selection operators, we use greedy crossover operator with some simplifications [1] . Appendix 1 schematically illustrates its operating principle. Practice shows it is a powerful operator. The quality of each chromosome is evaluated by means of a fitness criterion (that is, the total traveling distance L = N units). According to Darwin’s ‘survival of the fittest’ approach, from generation to generation we retain the best M chromosomes, allowing the inferior ones to die out. This process repeats until the best chromosome in the population will satisfy the fitness criterion, or when the total number of generations will equal the predetermined value. We propose such a TSP for the following advantages: First, the optimized path length is known in advance, and we can conveniently observe the phenomenon of premature convergence. Second, we can execute the algorithm without primary binary coding, so that it is very convenient to check the whole exposed evolutionary process. Finally, we can easily testify the effectiveness of various genetic operators. Fig. 1 shows some traveling paths in the process of evolution. These paths are generated from the best chromosome in corresponding generations. We can find from the figure that the zig-zag paths soon diminish only after a few generations. This verifies the effectiveness of the algorithm. However, in the majority of trials, the algorithm can only find the local optimum paths in the assigned number of generations. Fig. 1.  Some traveling paths during the evolution process: (a) after 3rd generation; (b) after 18th generation. The population size=40, number of cities=40, rate of crossover=0.6 and the mutation rate=0.1. 3. The exponential behavior of the population criteria The population composed of chromosomes stated above is solely a dissipative open system. In each generation, the population excretes the disordered chromosomes, receives the information from the algorithm and retains more and more ordered chromosomes until the algorithm will find the optimum or will reach the assigned number of generations. In each generation, when the population excretes the disordered chromosomes, the population acquires negative entropy from the environment. This is a typical artificial self-organization process, a process in which the organization of complex systems is created, reproduced or improved. According to Haken [4]  and  [5] , for a self-organizing system its criterion q can be described by means of the differential equation equation ( 2 ) where coefficient γ represents the damping constant and F ( t ) is the external influence. The integration of Eq. (2) will obey the exponential law with zero external disturbance or disturbance proportional to q . In our case, as a self-organizing system, the population mean, one of the criteria characterized the system behavior, obeys the exponential relationship. Fig. 2 (a) shows the typical population mean-generation curves. The exponential indices of these curves vary with the assigned parameters of the genetic operators. Among these parameters, the rate of crossover is the most influential one. After analyzing the variation of the population means in the optimization process, we found it solely coincides with a random walk model (that is to say, an AR1 model). However, the model residuals do not possess constant variance from generation to generation. In Fig. 2 (a) we can find from curve 2 that the population means nearly remain constant after 16th generation. That is to say, at that time the genetic operators will be no longer effective to improve the population. The population will be highly homogeneous. Therefore, in order to improve the algorithm efficiency, we should reasonably stop the execution at that time.