Password:   A problem often considered in Operations Research and Computational Physics is the traveling salesman problem, in which a traveling salesperson has to find the shortest closed tour between a given set of cities touching each city exactly once. The distances between the single nodes are known to the traveling salesperson. An extension of this problem is the time-dependent traveling salesman problem, in which these distances vary in time. I will show how this more complex problem is treated with physical optimization algorithms like simulated annealing. I will present results for the problem of the 127 beergardens in the area of Augsburg, in which I define a traffic zone in which traffic jams occur in the afternoon. PACS 02.70.Lq ; 89.40.+k ; 02.70.−c ; 02.50.Ga Keywords Traveling salesman problem ; Traffic jam ; Simulated annealing ; Monte Carlo The traveling salesman problem (TSP) is given by a set of N nodes. The task of a traveling salesman consists of finding the shortest closed tour through these nodes, touching each node exactly once. The distance D ( i , j ) between nodes i and j is usually given in units of either length or time. As this problem is NP-complete, many heuristics have been developed in order to solve this problem approximately [1] . One of the most successful algorithms, which is also widely used for many other NP-complete problems, is simulated annealing (SA) [2] : the given optimization problem is considered being a physical system, its objective function is equated with a Hamiltonian . The physical system is successively cooled down, such that it loses energy to a large extent, until it freezes in a (local) optimum configuration. If the cooling process is performed slowly enough, one can trust in ending up in a configuration energetically not far away from the ground state. SA usually starts with a random configuration. A series of moves ( σ i → σ i +1 ) is performed at each temperature step. Each move is either accepted or rejected with the probability [3] with being the energy difference between the two participating configurations. In case of rejection, σ i +1 is set to σ i . By lowering the temperature T , the probability for accepting a deterioration is reduced. If applying SA to a given optimization problem, a proper energy function and suitable moves have to be found. A useful representation of a configuration of a TSP is a permutation σ of the numbers 1,2,…, N , such that the Hamiltonian can be written as ( σ ( N +1)≡ σ (1)). The Lin-2-Opt [4] , which reverses the direction of a part of the tour, and Lin-3-Opt that exchanges two successive parts of the tour without altering their directions lead to rather good results. For several years, benchmark instances have been provided for comparing the quality of optimization algorithms [5] . I will use one of these instances throughout this paper, the famous BIER127 problem, which consists of the locations of the 127 beergardens in the area of Augsburg, a city in the Bavarian part of Germany. Fig. 1 shows the results for the mean value of the energy versus decreasing temperature T and its corresponding specific heat C , which exhibits a peak at a freezing temperature T f ≈900. Fig. 1.  The common TSP is rather idealized, e.g., due to the constant distance values. An extension of the TSP is the time-dependent traveling salesman problem (TdTSP), in which the distances vary in time due to traffic jam. Here, the scenario introduced in Ref. [6] shall be considered: starting at a fixed point in time, here noon, traffic jams occur on all edges whose both end points are inside a defined region in the city center. The time it takes to drive from one end point to the other one is multiplied in this case by a traffic jam factor f >1. The traveling salesman is supposed to start his tour at one specific node inside this traffic jam area at 9 a.m. in the morning and return to it at 3 p.m. in the afternoon in the case of f =1 if he moves along the optimum tour of the original BIER127 problem. Of course, it is favorable for him first to visit all nodes inside the traffic jam region if f ⪢1. Fig. 2 shows optimum configurations for various f . The pictures indicate that the traveling salesman has to compromise between driving a detour in order to avoid the traffic jam region in the afternoon and driving through the traffic jam region in order not to extend the tour length too much. Therefore, the Hamiltonian can be rewritten as with the tour length , consisting of the length of the optimum tour for the original problem and the additional detour the traveling salesman drives, and , the amount of time the traveling salesman is supposed to wait due to the traffic jams.