Password: The asymmetric traveling salesman problem (ATSP) appears in various applications. Although there are several heuristic approaches to its solution, the problem is still a difficult combinatorial optimization problem. This work proposes a novel hybrid approach specialized for the ATSP. The proposed method incorporates an improved genetic algorithm (IGA) and some optimization strategies that contribute to its effectiveness. In the IGA, both the crossover operation and the mutation operation are improved by selecting the optimum from a set of solutions. Three strategies: immigration, local optimization and global optimization are established based on several empirical optimization strategies to improve the evolution of the IGA. Computational experiments are conducted on 16 ATSP instances available in the TSPLIB (traveling salesman problem library). The comparative study shows that our proposed approach outperforms several other published algorithms. Keywords Combinatorial optimization ; Improved genetic algorithm ; Optimization strategy ; Asymmetric traveling salesman problem ; Heuristic approach The asymmetric traveling salesman problem (ATSP) is a well-known combinatorial optimization problem, in which bi-directional distances between a pair of cities are not necessarily identical ( Reeves, 1993 ). An optimal solution to the ATSP minimizes the total distance traveled to visit all cities in a list ( Choi et al., 2003 ). The ATSP appears in various real world situations, such as vehicle routing problems ( Tan et al., 2001 ), mixed Chinese postman problems ( Corberan et al., 2002 ), and scheduling problems involving setup times ( Choobineh et al., 2006 ). Two types of approaches for the ATSP are the exact and heuristic methods. Focusing on the exact methods, many branch and bound (BB) algorithms have been presented to solve the ATSP ( Carpaneto and Toth, 1980 ; Miller and Pekny, 1991 ). A characteristic of BB algorithms for the ATSP is that the linear assignment problem (AP) is applied to establish lower bounds for the optimal solution to the ATSP ( Lysgaard, 1999 ). Balas and Toth (1985) have solved the ATSP using a BB algorithm with a bounding procedure based on the assignment relaxation of the problem. Miller and Pekny (1989) have presented a successful BB algorithm implementation in a parallel computing environment. Fischetti and Toth (1997) introduced a BB algorithm based on facet-defining ATSP cuts. In addition, a number of approaches ( Fischetti and Toth, 1989  and  Fischetti and Toth, 1992 ) have been presented for strengthening the bound compared to that obtained by AP relaxation. Although exact methods guarantee the optimum solution, their complexity increases exponentially in the worst case. Many meta-heuristic approaches have been proposed to the traveling salesman problem (TSP), such as tabu search (TS) ( Fiechter, 1994 ), neural networks (NNs) ( Potvin, 1993 ), ant colony optimization (ACO) ( Dorigo and Gambardella, 1997 ) and genetic algorithms (GAs) ( Freisleben and Merz, 1996 ). A patching heuristic shows that the obtained solution asymptotically converges to the optimal solution of the ATSP ( Karp, 1979 ). The idea of integrating a local search method into evolutionary algorithms (EAs) is well known and its advantages are well-understood. This hybrid approach is also known a memetic algorithm (MA) ( Moscato and Norman, 1992 ; Moscato, 1999 ). The genetic local search (GLS) method proposed by Freisleben and Merz (1996) is a successful MA. In this algorithm, they introduced a new recombination operator called the ‘distance preserving crossover’ (DPX) and employed the 3-opt variant as a local search engine for the ATSP. Merz and Freisleben (1997) improved the results by adding a variant of the 4-opt move to the search in the ATSP cases. Another new recombination operator called edge assembly crossover (EAX) is proposed by Nagata and Kobayashi (1997) . This operator can generate a wide variety of individuals from a single pair of parents. Another algorithm employing the same ‘big family’ concept, and based on the soft brood selection method used in genetic programming, has been developed by Walters (1998) . The well-known two-point recombination operator and the chromosome directed edge repair (DER) are combined with the 3-opt variant and successfully applied to solve the ATSP. On the theoretical side, Gouveia and Pires (1999) present a compact formulation of the ATSP and a small subset of disjunctive inequalities. Righini and Trubian (2004) indicated that finding a solution to the ATSP within a constant worst-case approximation bound is NP-hard. On examination of algorithms for the ATSP with triangle inequality, it has been shown that the worst-case bounds depend on the number of cities or other parameters of the instance ( Frieze et al., 1982 ; Righini and Trubian, 1995 ). Also, Zhang (1997) demonstrated that the BB subtour elimination algorithm display polynomial time complexity despite its good performance. Although EAs perform well in a global search, they take a relatively long time to converge to a global optimum ( Renders and Flasse, 1996 ; Chu and Beasley, 1997 ). Local improvement procedures, on the other hand, can find the local optimum in a small region of the search space but they are typically poor in a global search. Therefore, local search procedures can be incorporated into the EAs to improve their performance. It is feasible to introduce the optimization strategies into EAs, and in this paper, we present a hybrid approach, which combines an improved GA (IGA) and optimization strategies for solving the ATSP. This paper is organized as follows. The optimization framework of our proposed approach is presented in Section 2 . In order to enhance the optimization performance, we proposed an IGA in Section 3 . Three strategies to improve the evolution of the IGA are established in Section 4 . In Section 5 , the proposed method is evaluated through many ATSPs. The comparisons show that our approach outperforms several other published algorithms. Finally, the conclusions of this study are drawn and possible directions for subsequent studies discussed. 2. The proposed optimization framework Optimization problems are challenging, as there are numerous feasible solutions. The challenge lies in searching through the vast solution space and identifying the optimal solution. When the number of solutions is too large to explicitly look at each one, several optimization strategies have been found to be exceptionally effective ( Wang and Zheng, 2001 ; Yang et al., 2005 ; Climer and Zhang, 2006 ). EAs are a ‘generation–evaluation’ type of searching technique, which only uses fitness value or objective value to guide the evolutionary search. In order to improve the performance of EAs, several researches have integrated optimization strategy into EAs ( Vachhani et al., 2001 ; Santosa et al., 2003 ; Wang, 2005 ). Integrating knowledge models (i.e., optimization strategies) and optimization models (i.e., EAs) is effective in the search for optimal solutions. The idea of using hybrid models, which combined knowledge models with optimization models, for solving optimization problems has been practicably demonstrated ( Kusiak, 1991 ; Dutta and Mitra, 1993 ; Reynolds and Zhu, 2001 ). The working mechanism of such hybrid models can be illustrated as Fig. 1 .