Password: The Traveling Salesman Problem (TSP) is one of the most famous problems in combinatorial optimization. In this paper, we are going to examine how the techniques of Guided Local Search (GLS) and Fast Local Search (FLS) can be applied to the problem. GLS sits on top of local search heuristics and has as a main aim to guide these procedures in exploring efficiently and effectively the vast search spaces of combinatorial optimization problems. GLS can be combined with the neighborhood reduction scheme of FLS which significantly speeds up the operations of the algorithm. The combination of GLS and FLS with TSP local search heuristics of different eiciency and effectiveness is studied in an effort to determine the dependence of GLS on the underlying local search heuristic used. Comparisons are made with some of the best TSP heuristic algorithms and general optimization techniques which demonstrate the advantages of GLS over alternative heuristic approaches suggested for the problem. Key words Heuristics ; Combinatorial optimization ; Traveling salesman ; Guided local search ; Tabu search 1. Introduction The Traveling Salesman Problem (TSP) is one of the most famous combinatorial optimization problems. The problem is known to be NP-hard and over the years has been the testing ground for numerous techniques inspired from a variety of sources. Nowadays, TSP plays a very important role in the development, testing and demonstration of new optimization techniques. In this context, we are presenting the application to the TSP of a new metaheuristic approach called Guided Local Search (GLS) and its accompanying neighborhood reduction scheme called Fast Local Search (FLS). GLS originally proposed by Voudouris and Tsang [ 47 ] is a general optimization technique suitable for a wide range of combinatorial optimization problems. Successful applications of the technique so far include practical problems such as Frequency Allocation [ 47 ], Workforce Scheduling [ 45 ] and Vehicle Routing [ 2 , 25 ] and also classic problems such as the TSP, Quadratic Assignment Problem (QAP) and Global Optimization [ 48 ]. In this paper, we present the technique to the wider Operations Research (OR) audience by explaining its application to the TSP, a widely known problem in the OR community. GLS belongs to a class of techniques known as Meta-heuristics [ 37 , 38 , 40 ]. Prominent members of this class include Tabu Search [ [12] , [13] , [14] , [15] , [16] , [17]  and  [18] ], Simulated Annealing [ 1 , 9 , 26 , 28 ], GRASP [ 10 ], Genetic Algorithms [ 8 , 19 , 39 ], Scatter Search [ 13 ] and others. Meta-heuristics aim at enhancing the performance of heuristic methods in solving large and difficult combinatorial optimization problems. In the case of GLS, the main focus is on the exploitation of problem and search-related information to effectively guide local search heuristics in the vast search spaces of NP-hard optimization problems. This is achieved by augmenting the objective function of the problem to be minimized with a set of penalty terms which are dynamically manipulated during the search process to steer the heuristic to be guided. Higher goals, such as the distribution of the search effort to the areas of the search space according to the promise of these areas to contain high quality solutions, can be expressed and pursued. GLS is closely related to the Frequency-Based Memory approaches introduced in Tabu Search [ 14 , 18 ], extending these approaches to take into account the quality of structural parts of the solution and also react to feedback from the local optimization heuristic under guidance. The paper is structured as follows. We first describe the basics of local search which is the foundation for most meta-heuristics. Following that we explain the different components of GLS and how it can be combined with the sister scheme of FLS particularly suited for speeding up the search of neighborhoods when GLS is used. The rest of the paper is devoted to the application of GLS and FLS to the famous TSP when these are combined with commonly used heuristics such as 2- Opt , 3- Opt and Lin–Kernighan . The benefits from using GLS and FLS with these heuristics are demonstrated and the dependence of GLS on them is investigated. Conclusions are drawn on the relation between GLS and the underlying local search procedures. Finally comparisons are conducted with other well-known general or TSP-specific metaheuristic techniques such as Simulated Annealing, Tabu Search, Iterated Lin–Kernighan and Genetic Algorithms. GLS is shown to perform equally well compared with state-of-the-art specialized methods while outperforming classic variants of well-known general optimization techniques. In all cases, publicly available TSP instances are used for which the optimal solutions are known so that the performance of algorithms can be measured with respect to approximating the optimal solutions. 2. Local search Local Search, also referred to as Neighborhood Search or Hill Climbing, is the basis of many heuristic methods for combinatorial optimization problems. In isolation, it is a simple iterative method for inding good approximate solutions. The idea is that of trial and error. For the purposes of explaining local search, we will consider the following deinition of a combinatorial optimization problem. A combinatorial optimization problem is defined by a pair (S, g), where S is the set of all feasible solutions (i.e. solutions which satisfy the problem constraints) and g is the objective function that maps each element s in S to a real number. The goal is to ind the solution s in S that minimizes the objective function g . The problem is stated as min   g ( s ) , s ∈ S . In the case where constraints difficult to satisfy are also present, penalty terms may be incorporated in g(s) to drive toward satisfying these constraints. A neighborhood N for the problem instance ( S , g ) can be deined as a mapping from S to its powerset: N:S→S 2 . N : S → 2 S .