Rosenkrantz et al. (SIAM J. Comput. 6 (1977) 563) and Johnson and Papadimitriou (in: E.L. Lawler, J.K. Lenstra, A.H.G. Rinnooy Kan, D.B. Shmoys (Eds.), The Traveling Salesman Problem: A Guided Tour of Combinatorial Optimization, Wiley, Chichester, 1985, pp. 145–180, (Chapter 5)) constructed families of TSP instances with n cities for which the nearest neighbor rule yields a tour-length that is a factor above the length of the optimal tour. We describe two new families of TSP instances, for which the nearest neighbor rule shows the same bad behavior. The instances in the first family are graphical, and the instances in the second family are Euclidean. Our construction and our arguments are extremely simple and suitable for classroom use. Keywords Traveling salesman problem ; Heuristic ; Lower bound 1. Introduction The traveling salesman problem (TSP) is a fundamental and well-known problem in combinatorial optimization; see for instance the book [3] by Lawler et al. An instance of the TSP consists of n cities 1,2,…, n together with the distances d ( i , j ) for 1⩽ i , j ⩽ n . Throughout this note, we will assume that the distances are symmetric and hence satisfy d ( i , j )= d ( j , i ) for all 1⩽ i , j ⩽ n . Moreover, we will assume that the distances satisfy the triangle inequality d ( i , k )+ d ( k , j )⩾ d ( i , j ) for all 1⩽ i , j , k ⩽ n . A partial tour is a path that visits each of the cities at most once. A tour visits each of the n cities exactly once, and in the end returns to its starting point. The objective in the TSP is to find a tour of minimal length. The nearest neighbor rule (NNR) is a fast and simple heuristic for constructing a TSP tour. NNR starts with an arbitrarily chosen city x 1 as partial tour. Then NNR repeats the following step for k =1,…, n −1: If the current partial tour is x 1 ,…, x k , then let x k +1 be the city closest to x k subject to the condition that x k +1 is not already contained in the partial tour; ties are broken arbitrarily. In the end, the NNR tour returns from city x n to city x 1 . The partial tour constructed after a number of steps of NNR is called a partial NNR tour . Subsequently one should note the following: If a partial NNR tour x 1 ,…, x p is given and the points x p +1 , x p +2 ,…, x q are yet unvisited, and if the partial tour x p ,…, x q can appear as a partial NNR tour, then the partial tour x 1 ,…, x q can appear as a partial NNR tour. Rosenkrantz et al. [4] prove that if the distances d ( i , j ) are symmetric and satisfy the triangle inequality, then the length of an NNR tour is at most above the length of the optimal tour (all logarithms in this paper are logarithms to the base 2). Moreover [4] exhibit instances for which the length of some NNR tour is a factor above the length of the optimal tour. Johnson and Papadimitriou [2] construct slightly simpler TSP instances that show the same bad lower bound behavior for NNR. 1.1. Contributions of this note We construct two extremely simple families of TSP instances for which the length of some NNR tour is a factor above the length of the optimal tour. Whereas the arguments in [4]  and  [2] are quite involved, our arguments are simple and suitable for classroom use. The TSP instances in the first family are graphical : The distances result from an underlying undirected graph G =( V , E ) with V ={1,2,…, n } such that d ( i , j ) is the length of the shortest path from vertex i to vertex j in G . All graphical instances satisfy the triangle inequality, but not all instances that satisfy the triangle inequality are graphical. In particular, the instances constructed in [4]  and  [2] are non-graphical. The construction for the graphical TSP is given in Section 2 . The TSP instances in the second family are Euclidean : The cities are points in the Euclidean plane, and the distance d ( i , j ) between cities i and j is just the Euclidean distance between the corresponding points. The construction for the Euclidean TSP is given in Section 3 . 2. The construction for the graphical TSP For k ⩾1 we consider the graph G k =( V k , E k ) that consists of a chain of 2 k −1 triangles. As an illustrating example, the graph G 3 is depicted in Fig. 1 . The graph G k has 2 k vertices in its lower level, and 2 k −1 vertices in its upper level. The left-most vertex in the lower level is denoted by ℓ k , the right-most vertex in the lower level is denoted by r k , and the central vertex in the upper level is denoted by m k . An equivalent recursive definition of G k with k ⩾1 is as follows: The graph G 1 is a triangle on the three vertices ℓ 1 , m 1 , and r 1 . For k ⩾2 the graph G k is defined as follows. Take two copies G k −1 ′=( V k ′, E k ′) and G k −1 ″=( V k ″, E k ″) of the graph G k −1 together with a new vertex m k . Create an edge between the vertices r k −1 ′ and ℓ k −1 ″. Create edges from m k to r k −1 ′ and to ℓ k −1 ″. Finally, rename vertex ℓ k −1 ′ to ℓ k , and rename vertex r k −1 ″ to r k . Fig. 1.  Figure options