  In this paper, we present a new class of polynomial length formulations for the asymmetric traveling salesman problem (ATSP) by lifting an ordered path-based model using logical restrictions in concert with the Reformulation–Linearization Technique (RLT). We show that a relaxed version of this formulation is equivalent to a flow-based ATSP model, which in turn is tighter than the formulation based on the exponential number of Dantzig–Fulkerson–Johnson (DFJ) subtour elimination constraints. The proposed lifting idea is applied to derive a variety of new formulations for the ATSP, and we explore several dominance relationships among these. We also extend these formulations to include precedence constraints in order to enforce a partial order on the sequence of cities to be visited in a tour. Computational results are presented to exhibit the relative tightness of our formulations and the efficacy of the proposed lifting process. Keywords Asymmetric traveling salesman problem (ATSP) ; Reformulation–Linearization Technique (RLT) ; Polynomial length formulations ; Precedence constraints 1. Introduction The traveling salesman problem (TSP) is concerned with determining a tour that, starting from a base city, visits all the other given cities once and only once and returns to the base city, while minimizing the total distance traveled. Let c ij c i j be the distance from city i i to city j j . If c ij =c ji c i j = c j i for all i i and j j , then this problem is known as the symmetric traveling salesman problem; otherwise, it is designated as an asymmetric traveling salesman problem (ATSP). The key modeling construct for ATSPs is the formulation of the so-called subtour elimination constraints (SECs), which preserve the integrity of the tour in a solution to the underlying order-assignment problem. Several representations of these constraints have been proposed in the literature for the ATSP, the most prominent among these being the seminal Dantzig–Fulkerson–Johnson (DFJ)  [2] SECs, which have been shown to be facet defining for the ATSP polytope (see  [8] ). One of the difficulties in directly adopting this formulation (referred to as ATSP-DFJ) is the exponential number of constraints that it contains, and so, Grotschel and Padberg  [7] and Carr and Lancia  [1] have suggested some implementation strategies that use reduced DFJ formulations.