Password: We study a generalization of the well-known traveling salesman problem (TSP) where each customer provides or requires a given non-zero amount of product, and the vehicle in a depot has a given capacity. Each customer and the depot must be visited exactly once by the vehicle supplying the demand while minimizing the total travel distance. We assume that the product collected from pickup customers can be delivered to delivery customers. We introduce a 0-1 integer linear model for this problem and describe a branch-and-cut procedure for finding an optimal solution. The model and the algorithm are adapted to solve instances of TSP with pickup and delivery. Some computational results are presented to analyze the performance of our proposal. Keywords Traveling salesman problem ; Pickup and delivery ; Benders’ cuts ; Branch and cut 1. Introduction In this article, we present a branch-and-cut algorithm for a routing problem called one-commodity pickup-and-delivery traveling salesman problem (1-PDTSP) and closely related to the well-known traveling salesman problem (TSP). A novelty of the 1-PDTSP respect to the TSP is that one special city is considered as a depot , and the other cities as customers partitioned into two groups according to the type of required service. Each delivery customer requires a given non-zero amount of the product, while each pickup customer provides a given non-zero amount of the product. An important assumption in 1-PDTSP is that any amount of product collected from a pickup customer can be supplied to any delivery customer. For example, the product could be milk to be supplied from cow farms (the pickup customers) to private residences (the delivery customers) with no special requirements on sources or destinations; another example arises when the product is money to be moved between branch offices of a bank. In other words, there is only one commodity with different sources and destinations. We consider a vehicle with a fixed upper-limit capacity starting and ending the route at the depot. We are also given with the travel distance between each pair of locations. The depot acts as a dummy customer so that total collected product is equal to total supplied product, and also provides originally the vehicle with any necessary load since we do not assume that the vehicle must start with empty or full load. However, as it is mentioned in Section 4 , this last requirement could also be incorporated with a minor modification of our model and algorithm. The 1-PDTSP calls for a minimum distance tour for the vehicle visiting each customer once and satisfying the customer requirements without ever violating the vehicle capacity. This optimization problem is -hard since it coincides with TSP when the vehicle capacity is large enough. Also the problem of checking whether there is a feasible solution is a strongly -hard problem since the 3-partitioning problem is a particular case (see [10] for details). A closely related problem is the known in literature as traveling salesman problem with pickup and delivery (TSPPD). As in the 1-PDTSP, there are two types of customers, each one with a given demand, and a vehicle with a given capacity, originally stationed in the depot. Also travel distances are given. A novelty is that in the TSPPD the product collected from pickup customers is different from the product supplied to delivery customers. Moreover, the total amount of product collected from pickup customers must be delivered only to the depot, and the product collected from the depot must be delivered to the delivery customers. For example, this is the case when empty bottles must be collected from customers to a warehouse and full bottles must be delivered from the warehouse to the customers. An immediate difference comparing 1-PDTSP and TSPPD is that the TSPPD is only feasible when the vehicle capacity is at least the maximum of the total sum of the pickup demands and of the total sum of the delivery demands. This constraint is not required for feasibility of the 1-PDTSP in which the vehicle capacity could even be equal to the biggest customer demand. Mosheiov [13] introduces the TSPPD and proposes applications and heuristic approaches. Anily and Mosheiov [3] and Gendreau et al. [7] present approximation algorithms for the TSPPD. Anily and Hassin [2] introduce the swapping problem , the particular case of 1-PDTSP where the customer requirements and vehicle capacity are identical. It is important to note that 1-PDTSP cannot be reduced to the swapping problem by simply splitting each customer into unit-demand customers because 1-PDTSP asks for a tour visiting each customer exactly once. Anily and Hassin [2] present a polynomial approximation algorithm. Another related problem is the TSP with backhauls and linehauls , where there is the additional constraint that delivery customers must be visited before any pickup customers. In the dial-a-ride TSP there is a one-to-one correspondence between pickup customers and delivery customers, and each delivery customer must be visited only after its corresponding pickup customer has been visited. When there is not vehicle capacity, the problem is also known as stacker crane problem and it is a particular case of the TSP with precedence constraints . See [16] for references and other variants including time windows, several vehicles, etc. To our knowledge this is the first article solving the 1-PDTSP. Section 2 presents a 0-1 integer linear programming model, both for the asymmetrical and symmetrical case, and Section 3 describes a branch-and-cut algorithm for finding an optimal solution. Section 4 extends the model and shows how the proposed algorithm can be adapted also to solve other related problems (including TSPPD). Several computational results are presented in Section 5 to analyze the performance of our proposal solving both 1-PDTSP and TSPPD instances to optimality. A preliminary computational version of this work was presented in “GO IV”, Leukerbad (Switzerland) August 21–24, 2000. Some theoretical results related to the 1-PDTSP has been presented in the “5th Aussois Workshop on Combinatorial Optimization”, Aussois (France) March 5–9, 2001 [10] . 2. Mathematical model