  This paper describes an exact ϵ ϵ -constraint method for bi-objective combinatorial optimization problems with integer objective values. This method tackles multi-objective optimization problems by solving a series of single objective subproblems, where all but one objectives are transformed into constraints. We show in this paper that the Pareto front of bi-objective problems can be efficiently generated with the ϵ ϵ -constraint method. Furthermore, we describe heuristics based on information gathered from previous subproblems that significantly speed up the method. This approach is used to find the exact Pareto front of the Traveling Salesman Problem with Profits, a variant of the Traveling Salesman Problem in which a profit or prize value is associated with each vertex. The goal here is to visit a subset of vertices while addressing two conflicting objectives: maximize the collected prize and minimize the travel costs. We report the first exact results for this problem on instances derived from classical Vehicle Routing and Traveling Salesman Problem instances with up to 150 vertices. Results on approximations of the Pareto front obtained from a variant of our exact algorithm are also reported. Keywords Bi-objective combinatorial optimization ; ϵ ϵ -constraint problem ; Pareto front ; Branch-and-cut ; Traveling Salesman Problem with Profits 1. Introduction Decision making issues can rarely rely on a single well defined criterion. Although the multiple facets of a decision process can be aggregated into a single objective function, this simplification involves arbitrary rules that can hardly capture adequately the complexity of real world decision issues. Thereby, the interest for multi-criteria decision making has continually grown during the last decades, as attested by the number of books and surveys on the topic (see [6] , [10] , [23]  and  [28] , among others). It comes as no surprise if more and more publications address combinatorial issues given that many real world applications involve discrete decisions or events. The reader is referred to [9] for a review of the literature on multi-objective combinatorial optimization (MOCO) problems.