Password: By mapping the optimization problems to physical systems, the paper presents a general-purpose stochastic optimization method with extremal dynamics. It is built up with the traveling salesman problem (TSP) being a typical NP-complete problem. As self-organized critical processes of extremal dynamics, the optimization dynamics successively updates the states of those cities with high energy. Consequently, a near-optimal solution can be quickly obtained through the optimization processes combining the two phases of greedy searching and fluctuated explorations (ergodic walk near the phase transition). The computational results demonstrate that the proposed optimization method may provide much better performance than other optimization techniques developed from statistical physics, such as simulated annealing (SA). Since the proposed fundamental solution is based on the principles and micromechanisms of computational systems, it can provide systematic viewpoints and effective computational methods on a wide spectrum of combinatorial and physical optimization problems. PACS 02.70.−c ; 89.20.Ff ; 02.70.Rr Keywords Optimization ; Extremal dynamics ; Simulated annealing ; Phase transition ; Traveling salesman problem 1. Introduction Finding the ground state configuration of complex physical, chemical or combinatorial systems is a serious challenge to academic and industrial societies. The challenge is due in part to the typically huge cardinality of the state space and in part to the complex topology of the energy landscape [1] . Generally, with typically exponential complexity of those optimization problems, such as the determination of ground states for disordered magnets [2]  and  [3] , graph bi-partitioning problem [4] , community detection in complex networks [5] , traveling salesman problem (TSP) [6] , and so on, it is hardly possible to find deterministic algorithms for optimal solutions with a computational effort being proportional to any power of the system size. Therefore, approximation algorithms are needed to obtain high-quality solutions for those NP-hard optimization problems in a reasonable computational time. In past decades, research on statistical physics has provided scientists with several powerful optimization methods, such as simulated annealing (SA) [7] , extremal optimization (EO) [4] , etc. SA is a computational stochastic technique that simulates the thermodynamic process of annealing of molten metals to attain the lowest free energy. On the other hand, EO is a recently introduced heuristic algorithm that was inspired by the nonequilibrium dynamics. Such techniques have been successfully applied to a variety of scientific and engineering optimization problems. As an application of statistical physics in solving hard computational problems, by mapping optimization problems to physical systems and applying methods from statistical physics [8] , this paper presents a general-purpose stochastic optimization method with extremal dynamics [9]  and  [10] for combinatorial and physical optimization systems. The details of the proposed method are illustrated and verified by a well-known NP-complete problem—the TSP, which requires finding the shortest tour between n cities, with the salesman visiting each only once and returning to the starting point, i.e., a directed Hamiltonian cycle containing all cities. By systematically updating the states of those cities with high energy, the optimization dynamics can guide the evolution of computational system to the ground state that minimizes the energy function. Moreover, the proposed optimization dynamics are compared with SA, and analyzed from the aspects of phase transition [11] , which was recently found in combinatorial optimization problems within theoretical computer science. The rest of this paper is organized as follows: In Section 2 , we introduce the concept of extremal dynamics in statistical physics. In Section 3 , we describe the definition of potential energy for all cities in a feasible TSP solution, and propose the optimization method with extremal dynamics for solving the computational system. Section 4 provides the analysis of the proposed optimization method and compares its dynamics with SA. Finally, Section 5 concludes this paper. 2. Extremal dynamics In statistical physics, the behavior of a multi-particle system can be described by its dynamics on state space S . Generally, the total number of the possible (microscopic) configurations N =| S |, where | S | represents the cardinality of the state space S , is extremely large. It is hardly possible to find the ground state s * ∈ S with minimal energy. However, in thermodynamics, many physical systems with numerous interacting particles can spontaneously organize towards a critical state, i.e., a state which presents long-range correlations in space and time. That is the so-called self-organized criticality (SOC) [12] , which is a paradigm for the description of a wide range of dynamical processes. Usually, those systems that exhibit SOC often consist of a large number of highly interrelated particles, and the collective behaviors of the overall system can be statistically analyzed at the macroscopic level. Correspondingly, the system configurations can also be regulated by the move class for updating the microscopic states of its particles, and the optimal configuration may naturally emerge from extremal dynamics [9]  and  [10] , simply through a selection against the “worse” elements, just like descending water always breaking through the weakest barriers, and biological system eliminating the least fitted species. Various models relying on extremal dynamics have been proposed to explain the self-organized critical phenomenon. The Bak–Sneppen (BS) model [13]  and  [14] is perhaps the simplest prototype of SOC under extremal dynamics, and it is defined on a d -dimensional lattice with L d sites and periodic boundaries. In the evolutionary interpretation of the BS model, each site represents a species, and has an associated “fitness” value between 0 and 1 (randomly sampling from a uniform distribution). At each update step, the extremal species, i.e., the one with the smallest value is selected. Then, that species and its interrelated species are replaced with new random numbers. After a sufficient number of update steps, the system reaches a highly correlated SOC, and the fitness of almost all species has transcended a certain fitness threshold. However, the dynamical systems maintain punctuated equilibrium: the species with lowest fitness can undermine the fitness of those interrelated neighbors while updating its own state. This co-evolutionary activity gives rise to chain reactions called “avalanches”, large fluctuations that rearrange major parts of the system, potentially making any configuration accessible [15] . 3. Optimization with extremal dynamics for the TSP Motivated by the self-organized critical processes of extremal dynamics, in this section we present a stochastic optimization method with extremal dynamics to solve the TSP. The TSP is a classic combinatorial optimization conundrum in operations research and computational physics due to the combinatorial complexity of the tours and the strong non-convexity of the energy function in the hyper-dimensional solution space. It has often served as a test bed for many optimization algorithms [16] , [17]  and  [18] for its conceptual simplicity and wide applicability to many fields. 3.1. Problem definition The TSP is to find a closed tour of minimum length through a set of n cities randomly distributed in Euclidean space. In the simplest case, the cities lie on a two-dimensional map. In principle we can solve the TSP exactly for any finite n , but in practice this will turn to a computational hard problem for large n because the number of possible paths grows as ( n –1)!/2 [19] . Thus the objective is translated into finding near-optimal solutions with reasonable computational effort. Let us consider a TSP instance with n cities, then each city will have n −1 possible successors, and would want to be connected to its first nearest neighbor [20] , but is often “frustrated” by the competition of other cities, causing it to be connected instead to its k th (1⩽ k ⩽ n −1) nearest neighbor [4] . As scaling the microscopic states of particles, e.g., positions, energies, magnetizations, etc., in a physical system, we consider each possible connection starting from a city as a state (degree of freedom) of the city. More specifically, the state variable of city i is defined as s i = k if it is connected to the k th nearest neighbor. In the utopian society, all cities reside in ground state, i.e., s i =1 for all i (1⩽ i ⩽ n ). However, in a feasible TSP tour, all cities possess their deterministic states, but not always on their ground state. Consequently, each city has an underlying impetus for driving it to its ground state, and the impetus is relevant to the length of its forward-directed edge. In this paper, we first introduce the concept of potential energy from physical mechanics to evaluate the kinetic characteristics of all cities.