Password: A new, simple and effective heuristic algorithm has been developed for the period traveling salesman problem. Computational results obtained from the test problems taken from the literature indicate that the algorithm compares well in terms of accuracy with other existing algorithms, finding a larger number of best solutions. Moreover, its average percentage error and its worst ratio of solution to the best-known solution are smaller than those of the other existing algorithms. Scope and purpose In the period traveling salesman problem, a traveling salesman must visit each city a fixed number of times over a given m -day planning period. Each city specifies a set of sequences of visit days and the visit days are assigned to the city by selecting one of these sequences. Moreover, for each day of the planning period, a not empty tour must be generated by connecting the salesman home city and the cities that must be visited on that day. The salesman objective is to minimize the total distance traveled over the entire m -day period. For this problem, arising in various situations such as mail delivery or lawn-care services, the paper proposes a simple and effective heuristic algorithm where an improvement procedure is embedded within a tour construction type procedure. Keywords Period traveling salesman problem ; Heuristic algorithms ; Computational results 1. Introduction The period traveling salesman problem (PTSP) is that problem where a traveling salesman sets out, on every day of his m -day planning period P ={1,…, t ,…, m }, from his home city (city 0) to visit at least one of the n cities belonging to the set I ={1,…, i ,…, n }, returning home daily. The salesman objective is to minimize the total distance traveled over the m -day period. Each city i ∈ I must be visited r i times by the traveling salesman over the m -day planning period, and can receive at most one visit per day. Moreover, a city does not necessarily require one visit on every day of the period, and the traveling salesman must visit at least one city every day, i.e., no daily tour must be empty. A visit day combination for the city i , or simply a “combination”, is a sequence of r i days on which the city i can be visited by the traveling salesman. Each city i ∈ I specifies a set V ( i ) of combinations, and the visit days are assigned to the city by selecting one of these combinations. The salesman must, thus, visit the city i on the days belonging to the selected combination. For example, in a 5-day planning period, if the city i specifies the two visit day combinations {1,3,4} and {2,3,5} , then the salesman must visit the city i on the days 1, 3 and 4 if the combination {1,3,4} is selected or on the days 2, 3 and 5 if the combination {2,3,5} is chosen. The PTSP can be seen as the problem of simultaneously assigning the visit days to each city (so that the traveling salesman visits at least one city every day) and designing m tours, each of them connecting the home city and the cities to be visited on that day. The objective is to minimize the total distance traveled by the salesman in order to perform all m tours. The PTSP, an NP-hard optimization problem, provides a natural generalization of the classic traveling salesman problem (see Lawler et al. [1] ) and includes both temporal and spatial decisions at the same time (see Bodin et al. [2] ). Problems of this type arise in various applications such as mail delivery or lawn-care services (see Cordeau et al. [3] ). Efforts to solve the PTSP have been directed towards the development of heuristic algorithms, which have been proposed by Christofides and Beasley [4] , Paletta [5] , Chao et al. [6] , and Cordeau et al. [3] . The two last approaches seem to be the best ones. Chao et al. have proposed a heuristic algorithm that first produces an initial solution and then uses an improvement step based on the record-to-record approach of Dueck [7] . Cordeau et al. [3] have proposed a tabu search heuristic based on the GENI procedure given by Gendreau et al. [8] . This heuristic algorithm solves the periodic vehicle routing problem, the periodic traveling salesman problem and the multi-depot vehicle routing problem by using very few user controlled parameters. A simple and effective heuristic algorithm for the period traveling salesman problem is described in Section 2 . This new algorithm is an integrated method where an improvement procedure is embedded within a tour construction procedure. The computational results obtained from 33 test problems taken from the literature are presented in Section 3 , and the conclusions are drawn in Section 4 . 2. The algorithm The heuristic algorithm proposed for the PTSP is a simple tour construction type procedure with an embedded improvement procedure. A tour construction procedure for the PTSP (see Paletta [5] ) builds the m -tours in parallel by processing one city at a time. At each iteration, a procedure (named the City Processing Procedure) selects a not yet processed city, assigns to it a combination and inserts the city into each current tour corresponding to each day of the assigned combination. This iteration process is normally repeated until all the cities have been processed. The new algorithm, however, temporarily interrupts this iteration process every time the number of processed cities is equal to the current value of an integer parameter α . Whenever such an interruption condition occurs, the algorithm performs the Improvement Procedure upon the current partial solution; moreover, the parameter α is updated before the iteration process is resumed on the not yet processed cities. At the end of the tour construction phase, the solution could prove infeasible with respect to the constraint that no tour must be empty (i.e., the combinations assigned to the cities have been selected so that there exists at least one day on which no city is visited by the traveling salesman). In that case, the algorithm performs a procedure (referred to as the Feasibility Procedure) that starts with an infeasible solution and returns a feasible solution.