Password: This paper presents a genetic algorithm to solve the asymmetric traveling salesman problem. The genetic algorithm proposed in this study extends search space by purposefully generating and including infeasible solutions in the population. Instead of trying to maintain feasibility with crossover operations, it searches through both feasible and infeasible regions for good quality solutions. It is also shown in the article that the size of the infeasible region defined by solutions with subtours dominates that of a feasible region in the asymmetric traveling salesman problem. A comparative computational study using benchmark problems shows that the proposed genetic algorithm is a viable option for hard asymmetric traveling salesman problems. Scope and purpose The asymmetric traveling salesman problem appears in various applications, such as vehicle routing problems, mixed Chinese postman problems, and scheduling problems with sequence dependent setups. Although there exist several heuristic procedures and branch and bound algorithms for it, the problem is still a difficult combinatorial optimization problem. The main purpose of the paper is to present a new genetic algorithm for the problem and to show its effectiveness. To give a justification for the algorithm, the paper also analyses the sizes of feasible and infeasible regions in the asymmetric traveling salesman problem. This analysis provides a basis for the choice of the solution representation (coding) scheme adopted in the genetic algorithm. The genetic operators that are well suited for this representation scheme are then identified for the problem. Keywords Asymmetric traveling salesman problems ; Genetic algorithm ; Mixed region search ; Heuristic procedure , Combinatorial optimization 1. Introduction The traveling salesman problem is a well-known combinatorial optimization problem, in which the salesman wants to minimize the total distance traveled to visit all cities in his visiting list. Problems of this type arise in various applications, such as vehicle routing problems [1] , integrated circuit board chip insertion problems [2] , printed circuit board punching sequence problems [3] , and a wing-nozzle design problem in the aircraft design. The symmetric version of the traveling salesman problem, in which bi-directional distances between a pair of cities are identical, has been studied by many researchers and the understanding of the polyhedral structure of the problem has made it possible to optimally solve large size problems [4] . Nonetheless, efforts to develop good heuristic procedures have continued because of their practical importance in quickly obtaining approximate solutions of large size problems. Good heuristic procedures are also important in designing an efficient implicit enumeration method for the problem and its variants. Heuristic methods such as the k-opt heuristic by Lin and Kernighan [5] and the Or-opt heuristic by Or [6] are well known for the symmetric traveling salesman problem. There also have been a few attempts to solve it by various meta-heuristics such as tabu searches [7]  and  [8] and genetic algorithms [9] , [10] , [11] , [12]  and  [13] . This paper considers the asymmetric traveling salesman problem, in which bi-directional distances between a pair of cities are not necessarily identical. This problem appears frequently in the context of the scheduling problems involving setup times [14] , although the problem can be easily seen in the two-dimensional space in which the distance is replaced with traveling time. Some heuristic procedures for solving the symmetric version of the problem can be easily modified for the asymmetric versions, but others are not. In general, the heuristic procedures developed for the former are not well suited for the latter because of shifts in arc orientations. Interestingly, Brest and Zerovnik [15] report that a heuristic algorithm, based on ‘arbitrary insertion’, performs remarkably well on benchmark test problems in terms of both solution quality and computation time. Karp [16] also presents a heuristic, patching algorithm , and shows that the heuristic solution asymptotically converges to the optimal solution of the asymmetric traveling salesman problem. Several branch and bound algorithms are available in the literature for the asymmetric traveling salesman problem. Little et al. [17] present a branch and bound algorithm for the asymmetric traveling salesman problem by considering a simple bounding scheme based on the opportunity cost of excluding an arc. Balas and Toth [18] solve the problem using a branch and bound with a bounding procedure based on the assignment relaxation of the problem. They also show that the lower bound obtained from the relaxation problem asymptotically converges to the optimal solution of the asymmetric traveling salesman problem when the number of cities grows large. Miller and Pekny [19] present a successful branch and bound algorithm implementation under the parallel computing environment. Also, Fischetti and Toth [20] present new separation algorithms for some classes of facet-defining cuts for the asymmetric traveling salesman problem and also a branch and bound algorithm based on them. They also report computational results that show superior performance of their algorithm over the branch and bound algorithm based on the assignment relaxation. On theoretical sides, Gouveia and Pires [21] present a compact formulation of the asymmetric traveling salesman problem and a small subset of disjunctive inequalities. In the analysis by Chopra and Rinaldi [22] , it is shown that all known major families of facet-defining cuts of graphical traveling salesman polyhedrons also define facets of the graphical asymmetric traveling salesman polyhedrons on general digraphs. Righini and Trubian [23] provide a worst-case analysis of two heuristic algorithms for the asymmetric traveling salesman problem and observe that the problem instances with weights distributed over a large range are suspected to be more difficult. Also, Zhang [24] shows that the well-known branch and bound subtour elimination algorithm does not have the polynomial time complexity despite its good performance. In this paper, we present a genetic algorithm for solving the asymmetric traveling salesman problem. Genetic algorithms are robust and known to be a promising tool for solving complex optimization problems. They are based on the principle of survival-of-the-fittest and selection by nature. There have been several research work done to develop the genetic algorithms for the symmetric traveling salesman problem (see for instance Potvin [11] ). Many of these studies focus on maintaining feasibility of solutions (chromosomes) by designing proper crossover operations [9] , [10]  and  [11] . Unlike these approaches, we extend the search space of the genetic algorithm by purposefully generating infeasible solutions with subtours. Here, a subtour is defined as a closed circuit formed by a subset of nodes in the salesman's visiting list. Thus, a core question in developing our algorithm is “Barring dual degeneracy, how can one quickly generate several infeasible solutions with subtours that are of as good quality as the optimal solution of the assignment relaxation problem?” We also derive an expression for the proportion of the number of infeasible solutions with a given number of subtours in the asymmetric traveling salesman problem. This analysis shows that the size of an infeasible region defined by solutions with subtours in the asymmetric traveling salesman problem dominates that of a feasible region. It also partially explains why searching through infeasible regions as well is a reasonable approach. This paper is organized as follows. In the next section, the asymmetric traveling salesman problem is described in brief and an analysis is provided to establish a need for a new heuristic approach. In Section 3 , the genetic algorithm that is based on an extended search space is described and the rationale for its anticipated good performance is provided. In Section 4 , results of a computational experiment are given. Finally, Section 5 includes comments and concluding remarks. 2. Problem description and some analyses Consider an asymmetric traveling salesman problem with n cities to visit. Let c ij be the distance from city i to city j. Moreover, let x ij be 1 if the salesman travels from city i to city j and 0, otherwise. Then, the asymmetric traveling salesman problem can be formulated as follows: