Password: The state-of-the-art of local search heuristics for the traveling salesman problem (TSP) is chiefly based on algorithms using the classical Lin–Kernighan (LK) procedure and the stem-and-cycle (S&C) ejection chain method. Critical aspects of implementing these algorithms efficiently and effectively rely on taking advantage of special data structures and on maintaining appropriate candidate lists to store and update potentially available moves. We report the outcomes of an extensive series of tests on problems ranging from 1000 to 1,000,000 nodes, showing that by intelligently exploiting elements of data structures and candidate lists routinely included in state-of-the-art TSP solution software, the S&C algorithm clearly outperforms all implementations of the LK procedure. Moreover, these outcomes are achieved without the use of special tuning and implementation tricks that are incorporated into the leading versions of the LK procedure to enhance their computational efficiency. Keywords Traveling salesman ; Local search ; Data structures ; Ejection chains 1. Introduction The traveling salesman problem (TSP) has been frequently used as a testbed for the study of new local search techniques developed for general circuit-based permutation problems. An important characteristic of these problems is that tests performed on challenging TSP instances provide a basis for analyzing the performance characteristics of global search meta-heuristic techniques. We focus on the undirected (symmetric) TSP problem in this paper. However, our observations and results can also be extended to the directed (asymmetric) case since the underlying stem-and-cycle (S&C) reference structure can readily be implemented for directed TSPs. The undirected problem can be stated in graph theory terms as follows. Let G=(V,A) G = ( V , A ) be a graph, where V={v 1 ,…,v n } V = { v 1 , … , v n } is a vertex (or node) set and A = { ( v i , v j ) | v i , v j ∈ V , i ≠ j } is an edge set, with a non-negative cost (or distance) matrix C=(c ij ) C = ( c ij ) associated with A A . The TSP consists in determining the minimum cost Hamiltonian cycle on the problem graph, where the symmetry implied by the use of undirected edges rather than directed arcs can also be expressed by stipulating that c ij =c ji c ij = c ji . We focus on the most widely studied form of the symmetric problem in which costs are assumed to satisfy the triangle inequality (c ij +c jk >c ik ) ( c ij + c jk > c ik ) . To document the current state of the art, and to provide a better understanding of the heuristic components that prove most effective for several classes of heuristic algorithms applied to the TSP, the 8th DIMACS Implementation Challenge on the Traveling Salesman Problem was recently organized by Johnson et al. [1] . In this paper, we describe findings from this implementation challenge as well as our own experience with different algorithm implementations. The outcomes give important insights about how to improve the performance of algorithms for several other circuit-based permutation problems. Some of the most efficient local search algorithms for the TSP are based on variable depth neighborhood search methods such as the classic Lin–Kernighan (LK) procedure [2] and the (S&C) ejection chain method [3] . Critical aspects of implementing these algorithms efficiently and effectively derive from considering appropriate candidates for available moves and from taking advantage of specialized data structures, especially for large TSP problems. We describe how these elements affect the performance of a S&C ejection chain method, and additionally show the impact of several other algorithmic components, including different types of starting solutions and complementary neighborhood structures. While many studies have been performed to determine how data structures, candidate lists and starting solutions affect the performance of alternative versions of the LK approach, no comparable study has been performed to determine the effect of these elements on the S&C ejection chain method. We show that by taking advantage of these components, but without relying on any of the additional special tuning and implementation tricks used in the leading versions of the LK procedures, the S&C approach proves superior to all implementations of the LK method. Our findings are documented by extensive computational tests conducted for TSP instances containing from 1000 to 1,000,000 nodes, and suggest several natural ways to obtain further enhancements for future generations of TSP methods. 2. Algorithm description We consider a local search algorithm based on the S&C ejection chain method proposed in Glover [3] . The current implementation of the S&C algorithm is a slight variant of the P-SEC algorithm described in Rego [4] . The algorithm can be briefly described as follows. Starting from an initial tour, the algorithm attempts to improve the current solution iteratively by means of a subpath ejection chain (SEC) method, which generates moves coordinated by a reference structure called a S&C. The S&C procedure is a specialized variable depth neighborhood approach that generates dynamic alternating paths, as opposed to static alternating paths produced, for example, by the classical LK approach. A theoretical analysis of the differences between the types of paths generated by ejection chain procedures (including the S&C approach) and the LK approach is given by Funke et al. [5] . The generation of moves throughout the ejection chain process is based on a set of rules and legitimacy restrictions determining the set of edges allowed to be used in subsequent steps of constructing an ejection chain. Implementation improvements in the basic algorithm strategy for S&C ejection chains (described in [4] ) make the current version of the S&C approach more efficient and more effective for solving very large scale problems.