The Austre Lov\'enbreen is a 4.6 km2 glacier on the Archipelago of Svalbard
(79 degrees N) that has been surveyed over the last 47 years in order of
monitoring in particular the glacier evolution and associated hydrological
phenomena in the context of nowadays global warming. A three-week field survey
over April 2010 allowed for the acquisition of a dense mesh of
Ground-penetrating Radar (GPR) data with an average of 14683 points per km2
(67542 points total) on the glacier surface. The profiles were acquired using a
Mala equipment with 100 MHz antennas, towed slowly enough to record on average
every 0.3 m, a trace long enough to sound down to 189 m of ice. One profile was
repeated with 50 MHz antenna to improve electromagnetic wave propagation depth
in scattering media observed in the cirques closest to the slopes. The GPR was
coupled to a GPS system to position traces. Each profile has been manually
edited using standard GPR data processing including migration, to pick the
reflection arrival time from the ice-bedrock interface. Snow cover was
evaluated through 42 snow drilling measurements regularly spaced to cover all
the glacier. These data were acquired at the time of the GPR survey and
subsequently spatially interpolated using ordinary kriging. Using a snow
velocity of 0.22 m/ns, the snow thickness was converted to electromagnetic wave
travel-times and subtracted from the picked travel-times to the ice-bedrock
interface. The resulting travel-times were converted to ice thickness using a
velocity of 0.17 m/ns. The velocity uncertainty is discussed from a common
mid-point profile analysis. A total of 67542 georeferenced data points with
GPR-derived ice thicknesses, in addition to a glacier boundary line derived
from satellite images taken during summer, were interpolated over the entire
glacier surface using kriging with a 10 m grid size. Some uncertainty analysis
were carried on and we calculated an averaged ice thickness of 76 m and a
maximum depth of 164 m with a relative error of 11.9%. The volume of the
glacier is derived as 0.3487$\pm$0.041 km3. Finally a 10-m grid map of the
bedrock topography was derived by subtracting the ice thicknesses from a
dual-frequency GPS-derived digital elevation model of the surface. These two
datasets are the first step for modelling thermal evolution of the glacier and
its bedrock, as well as the main hydrological network.