Non-Gaussian outcomes are often modeled using members of the so-called
exponential family. Notorious members are the Bernoulli model for binary data,
leading to logistic regression, and the Poisson model for count data, leading
to Poisson regression. Two of the main reasons for extending this family are
(1) the occurrence of overdispersion, meaning that the variability in the data
is not adequately described by the models, which often exhibit a prescribed
mean--variance link, and (2) the accommodation of hierarchical structure in the
data, stemming from clustering in the data which, in turn, may result from
repeatedly measuring the outcome, for various members of the same family, etc.
The first issue is dealt with through a variety of overdispersion models, such
as, for example, the beta-binomial model for grouped binary data and the
negative-binomial model for counts. Clustering is often accommodated through
the inclusion of random subject-specific effects. Though not always, one
conventionally assumes such random effects to be normally distributed. While
both of these phenomena may occur simultaneously, models combining them are
uncommon. This paper proposes a broad class of generalized linear models
accommodating overdispersion and clustering through two separate sets of random
effects. We place particular emphasis on so-called conjugate random effects at
the level of the mean for the first aspect and normal random effects embedded
within the linear predictor for the second aspect, even though our family is
more general. The binary, count and time-to-event cases are given particular
emphasis. Apart from model formulation, we present an overview of estimation
methods, and then settle for maximum likelihood estimation with
analytic--numerical integration. Implications for the derivation of marginal
correlations functions are discussed. The methodology is applied to data from a
study in epileptic seizures, a clinical trial in toenail infection named
onychomycosis and survival data in children with asthma.