Password: We present a metaheuristic methodology for the Capacitated Vehicle Routing Problem with two-dimensional loading constraints (2L-CVRP). 2L-CVRP is a generalisation of the Capacitated Vehicle Routing Problem, in which customer demand is formed by a set of two-dimensional, rectangular, weighted items. The purpose of this problem is to produce the minimum cost routes, starting and terminating at a central depot, to satisfy the customer demand. Furthermore, the transported items must be feasibly packed into the loading surfaces of the vehicles. We propose a metaheuristic algorithm which incorporates the rationale of Tabu Search and Guided Local Search. The loading aspects of the problem are tackled using a collection of packing heuristics. To accelerate the search process, we reduce the neighbourhoods explored, and employ a memory structure to record the loading feasibility information. Extensive experiments were conducted to calibrate the algorithmic parameters. The effectiveness of the proposed metaheuristic algorithm was tested on benchmark instances and led to several new best solutions. Keywords Vehicle routing ; Loading constraints ; Tabu Search ; Guided Local Search This paper addresses a variant of the standard version of the Vehicle Routing Problem (VRP) ( Toth and Vigo, 2002 ), called the Capacitated Vehicle Routing Problem with two-dimensional loading constraints (2L-CVRP) ( Iori et al., 2007 , Iori, 2005  and  Gendreau et al., in press ). It models the cases when the demand of customers consists of two-dimensional, rectangular and weighted items. Although 2L-CVRP is a practical problem, which often arises in the field of transportation logistics, only recently did researchers publish the first solution approaches for it. The standard version of the CVRP ( Rochat and Taillard, 1995 , Prins, 2004 , Tarantilis and Kiranoudis, 2002 , Tarantilis, 2005  and  Mester and Bräysy, 2007 ) is an NP-hard optimisation problem which involves determining the optimal set of routes, for a homogenous fleet of vehicles, to service a set of customers with known demands. The designed routes must originate and terminate at the central depot, and totally satisfy customer demand. Each customer must be visited once by one vehicle only. The total demand of the customer set, covered by a route, must not exceed the maximum carrying load of the vehicles. The problem examined in the present paper (2L-CVRP) is a generalisation of the CVRP, as it considers the demand of customers in the form of two-dimensional, rectangular and weighted items. The 2L-CVRP can be reduced to the CVRP by setting the dimensions of the items equal to zero and dealing only with their weight attribute. The aim of the 2L-CVRP is to generate a set of routes that respect the aforementioned CVRP constraints but also to guarantee the feasible loading/unloading of the items into/from the vehicles. We consider two versions of the 2L-CVRP: the Unrestricted one that only deals with the feasible loading of the items into the vehicles, and the Sequential one that considers both loading and unloading constraints, as it will be described in the next sections. Loading the two-dimensional items into the vehicles is closely related to the two-dimensional bin packing problem (2BPP). 2BPP is an NP-hard combinatorial optimisation problem which aims at packing a given set of rectangular items into the minimum number of identical rectangular bins ( Baker et al., 1980 , Chazelle, 1983 , Martello and Vigo, 1998 , Lodi et al., 1999 , Burke et al., 2004  and  Fekete et al., 2007 ). The 2L-CVRP is a particularly important problem. Its importance can be attributed to the fact that it is an interesting problem both from the theoretical and the practical points of view. Regarding the theoretical viewpoint, since 2L-CVRP is, in a sense, composed of two NP-hard optimisation problems (CVRP and 2BPP), it is also a challenging NP-hard problem of high complexity. As far as its practical importance is concerned, the 2L-CVRP has an obvious commercial value. A variety of real life applications in the distribution/collection management context involves the transportation of rectangular shaped items that cannot be stacked, due to their weight or fragility (household appliances, delicate pieces of furniture, etc.). Pallet distribution is another application example of 2L-CVRP. To the best of our knowledge, only two algorithmic methodologies have been proposed for the 2L-CVRP. Iori et al. (2007) have developed an exact methodology which uses a branch-and-cut algorithm to deal with the routing characteristics of the problem and a branch-and-bound procedure to guarantee feasible loadings of the items into the vehicles. This exact solution methodology is applied to problem instances with no more than 30 customers and 90 items. Since, in practical conditions, the scale of the problem tends to be larger, Gendreau et al. (in press) focused their interest on metaheuristic approaches to solve larger 2L-CVRP instances. In particular, their algorithmic methodology employs Tabu Search for the routing aspects of the problem. Customers are relocated by means of the GENI heuristic ( Gendreau et al., 1992 ). To guarantee the loading feasibility, they solve the two-dimensional strip packing problem ( Martello et al., 2003 ). In their work, they provide 180 problem instances with diverse characteristics as far as the size of the customer set and the number of demanded items are concerned. Except for the CVRP with two-dimensional constraints, researchers have recently addressed routing problem extensions considering the transportation of three-dimensional items ( Gendreau et al., 2006  and  Moura and Oliveira, 2007 ). The purpose of this paper is to present an effective and efficient metaheuristic methodology designed for the 2L-CVRP called Guided Tabu Search (GTS). Regarding the routing aspects of the problem examined, our algorithm explores the solution space by employing a search strategy based on Tabu Search, guided by an objective function alteration mechanism. This guiding mechanism induces diversification, and helps the search process to cover vast areas of the solution space. To ensure the feasible loading of the items into the vehicles, we employ a bundle of packing heuristics that aim at producing diverse packing designs. To accelerate our methodology, the loading feasibility information obtained through the progress of the search is stored in a memory structure. The proposed solution approach was successfully tested on a 180 2L-CVRP benchmark data set introduced by Gendreau et al. (in press) and found several new best solutions. The remainder of this paper is outlined as follows: in Section 2 , a detailed description of the problem examined is provided. Section 3 presents the proposed algorithmic methodology, followed by the computational results in Section 4 . Finally, Section 5 concludes the paper. 2. The problem Following the description of Gendreau et al. (in press) , the 2L-CVRP is defined as follows: let G  = ( N ,  A ) be an undirected graph, where N is the vertex set containing the central depot and n customers, and A  = {( i ,  j ): i , j  ∈  N , i  ≠  j } is the edge set. With each edge ( i ,  j ) ∈  A is associated a cost c ij that corresponds to the cost demanded for the transition from i to j . In the central depot, a fleet of vh homogenous vehicles is available. Every vehicle has a maximum carrying load equal to Q and a rectangular loading surface of length L and width W . The demand of each customer i consists of a set IT i of m i rectangular items of known weight. Each item I ik in IT i ( k  = 1, 2, …,  m i ) has length l ik and width w ik (corresponding to height and width in the work of Gendreau et al. (in press) ). Let a i denote the total surface area of all the items in IT i . The items must be placed on the loading surfaces without being rotated: their l - and w -edges must be parallel to the L - and W -edges of the vehicle surfaces, respectively. This constraint models the practical cases of automated, fixed orientation palette loading. The 2L-CVRP aims at determining the minimum cost set of routes that satisfy the following constraints: (a) the size of the generated route set does not exceed the number of available vehicles vh (at most one route per vehicle), (b) every route starts and ends at the central depot, (c) the demand of every customer is totally covered, (d) each customer is visited once, (e) the total weight of all items demanded by the set of customers covered by a route must not exceed the capacity of the vehicle Q and (f) there must be a non-overlapping loading of all items demanded by the set of customers covered by a route into the L  ×  W loading surface of the vehicles. As mentioned earlier, in this paper we study two versions of the 2L-CVRP: the Unrestricted 2L-CVRP , and the Sequential 2L-CVRP examined in the work of Iori et al. (2007) . The Unrestricted version is modelled by the aforementioned six constraints (a–f), while for the Sequential version of the problem an additional constraint, namely Sequence Constraint is imposed: the loading of the items must ensure that whenever a customer i is visited, all items in the set IT i can be unloaded by employing a sequence of straight movements (one per item) parallel to the length dimension of the vehicle surface. In other words, no item of customer j , visited after customer i , can be placed between items of customer i and the rear part (loading door) of the vehicle.