Password: A set of routes that minimizes the total collecting cost of the household refuse in a quarter of Lisbon may be obtained solving a Capacitated Arc Routing Problem (CARP) with side constraints. The CARP is known to be an NP-hard problem. We present two lower-bounding methods, both based on the transportation model, in which we have been able to incorporate some of the side constraints. We also present a three-phase heuristic to generate a near-optimal solution from the solution obtained with the first lower-bounding method. For the relative gap between the heuristic solution value and its associated lower bound value we give a theoretical worst-case bound and computational experience obtained with a set of test problems. Keywords Routing ; Lower bounds ; Heuristics 1. Introduction Collecting household refuse is one of the most difficult operational problems faced by local authorities in any large city. For the moment, we are concerned with the optimization of the refuse collection vehicle tours for a particular quarter of Lisbon, since in Lisbon the refuse collection is planned quarter by quarter. The operating system, at a specific quarter, may be roughly described as follows: each vehicle departs from a central garage, located outside the quarter, and goes directly to a crew base, inside the quarter, where the crew (apart from the driver) is waiting for its arrival to initiate their working period. The first trip begins at the crew base and the vehicle collects refuse along the streets, up to the point where the garbage to be collected along the next street segment would exceed the vehicle's residual capacity. From this point the vehicle goes directly to a recycling facility, located well away from the quarter, to unload the refuse. The vehicle then goes back to the quarter and begins its second trip. Every time (except for the last) the vehicle's residual capacity becomes insufficient for the next street segment it must head to the recycling facility, to unload, and then return to the quarter. After completing its final trip, the vehicle first goes to the crew base, leaving the crew at its pick up point, then proceeds to the recycling facility to unload for the last time, and finally returns to the central garage. Fig. 1 illustrates this operating system, for one vehicle. Fig. 1.  The shadowed area ( Fig. 1 ) represents the hard part of the problem to solve. At the beginning of the journey the vehicle will simply follow the shortest path from the garage to the crew base. At the end of the journey, from the crew base to the recycling facility and from the recycling facility back to the garage, the vehicle will once again follow the respective shortest paths. These three shortest paths are represented by the thick arcs in the figure. By a vehicle's tour we mean the total course driven since departing from the crew base point, until returning back there to drop the crew. Each tour is a sequence of two or more trips : the initial trip , from the crew base to the recycling facility, the final trip from the recycling facility back to the crew base and the intermediate trips (if any) from the recycling facility back to it. Since the number of vehicles in the fleet is scarce for the total demand, all vehicles must be used and each vehicle performs at least two trips. The recycling facility is far away from the quarter and there is no refuse to be collected in the streets adjacent to it. A set of tours that minimizes the total cost of collecting the household refuse in the quarter may be obtained by solving a Capacitated Arc Routing Problem (CARP) with some additional constraints. The CARP is known to be an NP-hard problem [8] . As shown in two recent surveys, Assad and Golden [1] , Eiselt et al. 5  and  6 , arc routing problems may be used to solve a huge number of real world problems in very different domains (winter gritting, postal distribution, meter reading, street sweeping, etc.). We present two lower-bounding methods for the refuse collection problem, both based on the transportation model. In these transportation problems we have incorporated some additional constraints not considered in the lower bound presented by Beltrami and Bodin [2] . We have also developed a three-phase heuristic to generate a near-optimal solution from the solution obtained with the first lower-bounding method, similarly and in the line of the ideas proposed by Bodin [3] ; by Bodin and Kursh [4] and by Frederickson et al. [7] for some routing problems. The value of this feasible solution represents an upper bound to our problem. We derived a theoretical worst-case bound for the relative gap between the heuristic solution value and its associated lower bound. Computational experience is presented for these two methods over a set of test problems. 2. Notation and problem formulation 2.1. Notation Let G =( V , A ) be a directed graph, with n +1 nodes , representing the quarter and the recycling facility. Node 1 represents the crew base and node n +1 the recycling facility. Remaining nodes, in the set , represent street crossings or dead-end streets. Each arc, , represents a street segment in between two street crossings. A one way street is represented by an arc with the same orientation. A two-way street is represented by a pair of reverse arcs: and .