Password: A new version of the vehicle routing problem with backhauls is presented. In this new problem backhauls are not restricted to be visited once all linehaul customers have been served, neither are backhaul customers fully mixed with linehaul customers. In this problem the user based on his or her experience, the vehicle capacity, the type of products and the type of vehicle used, can define the position along a route from which the first backhaul customer may be visited. An insertion-type heuristic is put forward for this class of problems. An analysis of the improvement in route cost obtained by allowing a relaxation in the restriction of the mix of linehaul and backhaul customers is reported. Keywords Heuristic ; Flexibility ; Backhauls ; Routing 1. Introduction The vehicle routing problem with backhauls (VRPB) is an extension to the classical vehicle routing problem (VRP), where two different types of customers are served. Linehaul customers require a given demand quantity to be delivered from the depot and backhaul customers require a given supply quantity to be picked up and transported to the depot. The goods are transported to or from a single depot by a fleet of homogeneous vehicles. Traditional methods to solve the VRPB either restrict all backhauls to be visited once all linehauls have been served, the classical VRPB, or they allow mixed linehaul and backhaul customers along the routes, the mixed VRPB. In this paper we introduce a compromise between these two problems where mixed linehaul and backhaul customers are permitted but the user decides, according to the vehicle capacity, his or her experience and the type of vehicle used, when it is more appropriate to start inserting the first backhaul customer among the linehaul customers. This is a much more realistic problem as in many real-life applications it may not be necessary to restrict all backhauls to the end of the routes, but it may not be practical to allow backhaul customers to be visited very early along the routes due to driver's inconvenience and time wasted for load reshuffling in the vehicle. In the mixed VRPB the objective and constraints are the same as in the classical VRPB apart from the fact that backhauls can be served before all linehaul customers have been serviced. This makes the mixed problem more complicated than the classical VRPB, because of the fluctuating load. In the classical VRPB it is sufficient to check that the total linehaul load and the total backhaul load for each route do not separately exceed the maximum vehicle capacity. In the mixed VRPB the vehicle load can either decrease or increase at each customer depending on whether the customer has linehaul or backhaul load, respectively. Therefore, we need to check that the vehicle capacity is not exceeded at any arc along the route. It should also be noted that once a backhaul customer has been placed on a route in the classical VRPB then the route direction becomes fixed. This is not the case for the mixed VRPB where direction may not necessarily be fixed by the inclusion of a backhaul customer, hence feasibility needs to be checked in both directions. The mixed VRPB has not received as much attention in the literature as its counterpart the classical VRPB. Deif and Bodin [1] use a savings-based heuristic based on the Clarke and Wright algorithm to solve the mixed VRPB with a penalty function to delay the insertion of a backhaul in a route. Casco et al. [2] propose an insertion-based heuristic method which uses a penalty function based on delivery load after pickup. Salhi and Nagy [3] develop an insertion-based heuristic which considers a cluster of backhauls for insertion at each iteration. The main reasoning behind only allowing backhauls after all linehauls have been visited is motivated by the fact that: • In many practical situations linehaul customers have precedence over backhaul customers. • Vehicles are often rear loaded which can cause problems when it is necessary to rearrange delivery goods on the vehicle in the mixed VRPB. However, a solution which allows mixed routes can produce significantly lower route costs than a solution to the classical VRPB. In Fig. 1 we show how a backhaul customer may be positioned differently depending on whether the problem is the classical VRPB or the mixed VRPB. For instance, in the classical VRPB solution backhaul B1 is forced to be served after the four linehaul customers have been visited, which means that the vehicle passes close to B1 but cannot visit B1 until the final linehaul L5 has been serviced. Therefore, the vehicle is forced to drive away from B1 and then in order to visit this customer has to return to a point close to customers which occur much earlier along the route. The mixed solution allows customer B1 to be serviced after linehaul customer L2 and before customer L3, which produces a much shorter route. Fig. 1.  The improved design of vehicles, in particular vehicles which permit side loading, mean that mixed routes are now a much more practical option. However, the practicality of mixed routes is very much dependent on the requirements of customers and the types of goods to be transported, which may be different for every real-life application. For more details and references, see [4] , [5] , [6]  and  [7] for the classical VRPB and [3] for the mixed VRPB. 2.1. A generalised approach However great the saving, the practical problems associated with mixed routes can still be an issue, even with improved vehicle design. Even if such level of difficulty is true it may not always be necessary to restrict all backhauls to be served after all linehauls. It may be useful to produce a practical compromise between the classical VRPB and the mixed VRPB. In other words, it may be appropriate to allow mixed linehauls and backhauls while satisfying a restriction to this ‘mix’. For example, it could be possible to allow backhauls to be visited before all linehauls have been served but to add a restriction that a certain number of linehauls are serviced before the first backhaul can be served. Fig. 2 shows this compromise between the classical VRPB and the mixed VRPB. In the classical VRPB routes are created which are practical to implement due to the fact that vehicles do not contain both linehaul and backhaul load simultaneously. However, the quality of the solution, even if it is the best for this problem, may be poor for the ‘real’ problem. In other words, the cost of the routes may be high. In the mixed problem a high-quality solution can be achieved but the routes may not be practical to implement. This is due to the fluctuating load on the vehicles as it may be necessary to rearrange the load on the vehicles during customer visits. The balance between a high-quality solution and the ease of implementation, as shown in Fig. 2 , is an important practical issue which we believe is worth the investigation. There may exist a few solution methods by which to approach this new distribution problem. For instance, in this study this is addressed by applying a restriction on the position along the routes where the first backhaul may be serviced. Fig. 2.  There are a number of components on which this restriction could be based, such as: • the number of linehaul customers serviced along the route, • the amount of linehaul load delivered along the route, • the amount of linehaul load delivered and the amount of backhaul demand picked up, • the amount of backhaul demand to be picked up at a customer, and • the capacity of the vehicle compared to the linehaul and backhaul demands.