  The cumulative capacitated vehicle routing problem (CCVRP) is a transportation problem which occurs when the objective is to minimize the sum of arrival times at customers, instead of the classical route length, subject to vehicle capacity constraints. This type of challenges arises whenever priority is given to the satisfaction of the customer need, e.g. vital goods supply or rescue after a natural disaster. The CCVRP generalizes the NP-hard traveling repairman problem (TRP), by adding capacity constraints and a homogeneous vehicle fleet. This paper presents the first upper and lower bounding procedures for this new problem. The lower bounds are derived from CCVRP properties. Upper bounds are given by a memetic algorithm using non-trivial evaluations of cost variations in the local search. Good results are obtained not only on the CCVRP, but also on the special case of the TRP, outperforming the only TRP metaheuristic published. Keywords Metaheuristic ; Cumulative capacitated vehicle routing problem ; Traveling repairman problem ; Routing for relief ; Memetic algorithm 1. Introduction Recent publications such as [6] suggested that classical cost-minimizing problems may not properly reflect the need for fast service, equity and fairness that characterizes the transport of critical supplies after a large disaster. Indeed, where commercial supply chains focus on quality and profitability, humanitarian supply chains are usually focused on minimizing loss of life and suffering, and thus require the definition of more customer-centric or service-based objective functions. The cumulative capacitated vehicle routing problem (CCVRP) aims at minimizing the sum of arrival times at customers, instead of the classical route length, taking into account capacity limitations. To the best of our knowledge, only [6] addresses a problem equivalent to the CCVRP, the min–avg VRP, which minimizes the average arrival time at customers. Applying an insertion heuristic on simple instances (unit demand, vehicle capacity modified, etc.), the paper shows that good VRP solutions and min–avg VRP solutions can be significantly different. The CCVRP generalizes the traveling repairman problem (TRP), by adding capacity constraints and a homogeneous vehicle fleet. It differs from the VRP with min–max objective function [2] , because the min–max VRP only minimizes the maximum arrival time at a customer whereas the CCVRP also takes into account the arrival times at the intermediate customers of each route, which can vary considerably if many customers are served early or late on their route. The CCVRP also differs from the cumulative vehicle routing problem (CumVRP [12] ) where the energy-minimizing objective function sums up the vehicle load times the length of traversed edges. Finally, it obviously differs from the well-known open vehicle routing problem (OVRP [14] ) where the objective is to minimize the total cost but each vehicle does not return to the depot after servicing the last customer on its route. Fig. 1 illustrates optimal CVRP and OVRP solutions as well as our best known CCVRP solution on a classical instance A-n32-k5 from the vehicle routing literature. The CVRP solution depicted in Fig. 1 (a) has been converted into a valid CCVRP solution by removing from each route one of the two edges connected to the depot. As shown in Fig. 1 , optimal solutions of the three problems can differ significantly. Fig. 1.  Optimal solutions from CVRP and OVRP compared to CCVRP for A-n32-k5. (a) Optimal CVRP solution: recomputed CCVRP cost=3470 cost = 3470 . (b) Optimal OVRP solution: recomputed CCVRP cost=2512 cost = 2512 . (c) Best known CCVRP solution: cost=2192 cost = 2192 . The TRP is defined in [18] as a “customer-centric routing problem”: the objective takes the satisfaction of each customer into account, contrary to most classical vehicle routing problems which address a global cost criterion. This problem is also known in the literature as the minimum latency problem, the delivery man problem or the school-bus driver problem. It consists in finding a tour on a given set of nodes which minimizes the sum of the elapsed times to reach the nodes, starting from a depot node. Various practical applications have been described in the literature: distribution, machine scheduling and even power-control and receiver optimization in wireless telecommunication systems [3] . Some articles take into account the returning time to the depot, which can modify the optimal solution. This problem is NP-hard [17] , and it cannot be considered as a simple variant of the classical traveling salesman problem (TSP) because of its specific properties on a metric space which makes it more difficult to solve and to approximate, as explained in [5] . Most work on the TRP deals with exact methods and approximation algorithms to solve small instances. Fast approximation algorithms are described in [1] but the best ratio obtained so far (3.59) is proposed in [7] . Concerning exact methods, we can mention a dynamic programming used on instances up to 23 nodes [21] and a branch-and-bound with lower bounds based on the matroidal structure of the problem for instances up to 60 nodes [10] . In [4] the two exact algorithms proposed incorporate lower bounds provided by a Lagrangian relaxation of the TRP and a dynamic programming-based heuristic. They can solve problems up to 30 nodes exactly and problems up to 60 nodes within 3% from optimality. The latest contribution [19] solves instances up to 80 nodes, after formulating the TRP as a shortest path problem with side constraints on a multilevel graph where nodes represent the potential position of each customer in the tour. The only metaheuristic published is a greedy randomized adaptive search procedure with variable neighborhood descent ( GRASP+VND GRASP + VND ) proposed in [18] . Tested on instances from 10 to 1000 nodes, this metaheuristic improves the nearest neighbor heuristic by 2–12%. The gap with the lower bound deduced from a spanning tree with edge multiplicators varies between 33% and 50%.