Password: Daily traffic congestion forms a major problem for businesses such as logistic service providers and distribution firms. It causes late arrivals at customers and additional costs for hiring the truck drivers. Such costs caused by traffic congestion can be reduced by taking into account and avoiding predictable traffic congestion within vehicle route plans. In the literature, various strategies are proposed to avoid traffic congestion, such as selecting alternative routes, changing the customer visit sequences, and changing the vehicle-customer assignments. We investigate the impact of these and other strategies in off-line vehicle routing on the performance of vehicle route plans in reality. For this purpose, we develop a set of vehicle routing problem instances on real road networks, and a speed model that reflects the key elements of peak hour traffic congestion. The instances are solved for different levels of congestion avoidance using a modified Dijkstra algorithm and a restricted dynamic programming heuristic. Computational experiments show that 99% of late arrivals at customers can be eliminated if traffic congestion is accounted for off-line. On top of that, about 87% of the extra duty time caused by traffic congestion can be eliminated by clever congestion avoidance strategies. Keywords Congestion avoidance ; Time-dependent VRP ; Time-dependent SPP ; Speed model 1. Introduction Due to a growing amount of traffic and a limited capacity of the road network, traffic congestion has become a daily phenomenon. In the USA, the annual travel delay has grown from 2.5 billion delay hours in 1995 to 4.2 billion delay hours in 2005 [1] . Since traffic congestion causes heavy delays, it is very costly for intensive road users such as logistic service providers and distribution firms. The Dutch Organization for Transport and Logistics (TLN) estimated that over 10% of the truck drivers' working hours are lost due to delays as a result of traffic congestion. This causes large costs for hiring the truck drivers and the use of extra vehicles, and if they are not accounted for in the vehicle route plans they may cause late arrivals at customers or even violations of driving hours' regulations. Therefore, accounting for and avoiding traffic congestion has a large potential for cost savings. Traffic congestion may have several causes. Some are predictable, such as the large amount of commuter traffic during the daily peak hours, and others are less predictable, such as the weather or road accidents. Since delays caused by peak hour traffic congestion are predictable and they constitute a large part (70–87%) of all traffic congestion delays [2] , we focus on avoiding peak hour traffic congestion. Given a certain realization of the factors causing traffic congestion, peak hour traffic congestion depends on location and time of the day. Therefore, congestion avoidance is all about not being at the wrong place at the wrong time. There are several strategies to achieve this. For example, we can change the visit sequence of a vehicle or even move a customer from one vehicle to another. These strategies can be optimized by solving a vehicle routing problem (VRP) with time-dependent travel times (TDVRP). Branch and cut and price methods have been very successful in solving vehicle routing problems with timing restrictions such as time windows (see, amongst others, [3]  and  [4] ). Although the literature on the VRP with time-independent travel times is exhaustive (for an extensive overview, see [5] ), the literature on the TDVRP is rather scarce. To account for traffic congestion effects within vehicle routing, Malandraki and Daskin [6] introduce the TDVRP and propose an ILP formulation for it. They model time-dependent travel times as a travel time step function for customer links. A drawback of this model is that it has the unrealistic property that a later departure time may result in an earlier arrival time, i.e., it does not satisfy the so-called non-passing property . Malandraki and Dial [7] propose a restricted dynamic programming heuristic for the Time-Dependent Traveling Salesman Problem (TDTSP), which is the special case of the TDVRP with only one vehicle. Bentner et al. [8] and Schneider [9] also consider the TDTSP. Both works consider one peak period and propose local search methods such as simulated annealing to solve the TDTSP. Ichoua et al. [10] resolve the non-passing property by considering a speed step function for customer links instead of a travel time step function. Since with a speed step function vehicles drive the same speed when traversing the same link at the same time, they can never overtake each other. Ichoua et al. [10] also show that a time-dependent model may lead to substantial improvements over a time-independent one, by computational tests on a set of modified VRP benchmarks. Fleischmann et al. [11] propose a modified savings heuristic for the TDVRP. They test their heuristic using travel time data obtained from a traffic information system in the city of Berlin. Haghani and Jung [12] propose a genetic algorithm for the TDVRP, which they validate with an exact algorithm for problem instances up to 30 customers. Donati et al. [13] propose an ant colony optimization algorithm for the TDVRP, which they test on some theoretical benchmarks, and a test case in the district of Padua in Italy. Van Woensel et al. [14] use a queueing model to derive time-dependent travel speeds. In addition, they show potential improvements by optimizing departure times from the depot. Hashimoto et al. [15] also consider both determining vehicle tours under time-dependent travel times and departure time optimization. Moreover, they consider time windows in their model. In addition to solving a TDVRP, business traffic may also avoid traffic congestion by selecting alternative routes between customers at problematic hours. These routes are optimized by solving a shortest path problem with time-dependent travel times (TDSPP). Orda and Rom [16] show that solving a time-dependent shortest path problem for a given departure time can be done using a modified Dijkstra [17] search. Note that for solving a TDSPP a full representation of the road network is needed, whereas for solving a TDVRP inter-customer time-dependent travel times suffice. We compare four strategies to avoid traffic congestion. The strategies are applied within the development of off-line vehicle route plans. We test the impact of these plans in a realistic setting. We restrict ourselves to computing travel routes for some centrally controlled fraction of the traffic demand. With vehicle routing, we refer to routing of the vehicles of a certain company, such as a logistic service provider or a distribution firm. Within the development of the route plans, we combine time-dependent shortest path problems and time-dependent vehicle routing problems in one model. This is a difference with existing literature, in which these problems are generally considered separately. We test the impact of the strategies on large cases, which is another difference with existing literature, since the majority of the papers dealing with the TDVRP consider theoretical benchmarks (except for a few small cases). For this purpose, we develop a number of VRP instances on real road networks and a speed model representing peak hour traffic congestion. We evaluate the quality of the vehicle route plans by executing them with the actual speeds in the road network obtained from the speed model. Note that traffic conditions may change because of the choices of some centrally controlled fleet. As a result, the non-controlled part of the road users may also change its behavior, introducing a game theoretic aspect to the problem. In this paper, we choose to ignore this aspect, since we are mainly interested in the impacts of the strategies for the centrally controlled fleet. In addition, if a centrally controlled fleet avoids peak hour traffic congestion, which is mainly caused by the large portion of non-controlled road users (i.e., commuter traffic), road conditions tend to get better for commuter traffic on these roads. Therefore, for the non-controlled road users, the urge for choosing alternative routes reduces, thereby also reducing the chance of leading to a congestion situation worse than before. The contributions of this paper are the following. First, to the best of our knowledge, this is the first paper that considers shortest path problems and vehicle routing problems including traffic congestion in one model. Second, we evaluate the impact of four congestion avoidance strategies with respect to different cost measures such as number of vehicles used, total travel distance, total duty time (sum of total traveling, serving, and waiting time), and total number of late arrivals. Since these measures all play a role in practice, we obtain a better indication of the performance of the strategies in practice than when resorting to only one or two objectives. Third, this paper proposes a speed model on large road networks that reflects the key elements of peak hour traffic congestion. This speed model differs from existing ones in that it considers the entire road network, it considers inter-urban traffic congestion effects, it considers two peak periods, and it considers different road types. This paper is organized as follows. In Section 2 we propose the speed model, and in Section 3 we present the four congestion avoidance strategies. In Section 4 we discuss our solution approach to solve the problem instances with these strategies. In Section 5 we compare the impact of the strategies, and in Section 6 we give some concluding remarks. 2. Speed model To investigate the impact of the different congestion avoidance strategies in a realistic setting, we propose a speed model for real road networks that represents peak hour traffic congestion. The speed model defines for each arc in the road network a speed step function. This function defines speeds for different time intervals, such that in each time interval the speed is constant. We use five different time intervals: the morning and evening peak periods, and the periods before, in between, and after the peak periods. By defining speeds for each single road, the model is more refined than the majority of the papers dealing with the TDVRP, in which speeds are usually defined for customer links. Note that the speed model still contains the unrealistic effect that the speed suddenly changes when entering a new time interval. This effect can be reduced by considering more time intervals, but to keep the analysis simple, we choose to use five time intervals.