  We address the Open Vehicle Routing Problem (OVRP), a variant of the “classical” (capacitated and distance constrained) Vehicle Routing Problem (VRP) in which the vehicles are not required to return to the depot after completing their service. We present a heuristic improvement procedure for OVRP based on Integer Linear Programming (ILP) techniques. Given an initial feasible solution to be possibly improved, the method follows a destruct-and-repair paradigm, where the given solution is randomly destroyed (i.e., customers are removed in a random way) and repaired by solving an ILP model, in the attempt of finding a new improved feasible solution. The overall procedure can be considered as a general framework which could be extended to cover other variants of Vehicle Routing Problems. We report computational results on benchmark instances from the literature. In several cases, the proposed algorithm is able to find the new best known solution for the considered instances. Keywords Integer Linear Programming ; Local search ; Heuristics ; Open Vehicle Routing Problem 1. Introduction We address the Open Vehicle Routing Problem (OVRP), a variant of the “classical” (capacitated and distance constrained) Vehicle Routing Problem (VRP) in which the vehicles are not required to return to the depot after completing their service. OVRP can be formally stated as follows. We are given a central depot and a set of n customers , which are associated with the nodes of a complete undirected graph G =( V , E ) (where V ={0,1,…, n   }, node 0 represents the depot and V⧹{0} V ⧹ { 0 } is the set of customers). Each edge e∈E e ∈ E has an associated finite cost   c e ≥0 c e ≥ 0 and each customer v∈V⧹{0} v ∈ V ⧹ { 0 } has a demand   q v >0 q v > 0 (with q 0 =0). A fleet of m identical vehicles is located at the depot, each one with a fixed cost F , a capacity Q and a total distance-traveled ( duration ) limit D . The customers must be served by at most m Hamiltonian paths ( open routes ), each path associated with one vehicle, starting at the depot and ending at one of the customers. Each route must have a duration (computed as the sum of the edge costs in the route) not exceeding the given limit D of the vehicles, and can visit a subset S   of customers whose total demand ∑ v∈S q v ∑ v ∈ S q v does not exceed the given capacity Q   . The problem consists of finding a feasible solution covering (i.e., visiting) exactly once all the customers and having a minimum overall cost, computed as the sum of the traveled edge costs plus the fixed costs associated with the vehicles used to serve the customers. OVRP is known to be NP NP -hard in the strong sense, as it generalizes the Bin Packing Problem and the Hamiltonian Path Problem. In this paper we present a heuristic improvement procedure for OVRP based on Integer Linear Programming (ILP) techniques. Given an initial feasible solution to be possibly improved, the procedure iteratively performs the following steps: (a) randomly select several customers from the current solution, and build the restricted solution obtained from the current one by extracting (i.e., short-cutting) the selected customers; (b) reallocate the extracted customers to the restricted solution by solving an ILP problem, in the attempt of finding a new improved feasible solution. This method has been proposed by De Franceschi et al. [7] and deeply investigated by Toth and Tramontani [27] in the context of the classical VRP. Here, we consider a simpler version of this approach, which exploits no particular feature of the addressed problem. The method follows a destruct-and-repair paradigm, where the current solution is randomly destroyed (i.e., customers are removed in a random way) and repaired by following ILP techniques. Hence, the overall procedure can be considered as a general framework which could be extended to cover other variants of Vehicle Routing Problems. The notion of using ILP techniques to improve a feasible solution of a combinatorial optimization problem has emerged in several papers in the last few years. Addressing the split delivery VRP, Archetti et al. [2] developed a heuristic algorithm that integrates tabu search with ILP by solving integer programs to explore promising parts of the solution space identified by a tabu search heuristic. A similar approach has been presented by Archetti et al. [1] for an inventory routing problem. Hewitt et al. [15] proposed to solve the capacitated fixed charge network flow problem by combining exact and heuristic approaches. In this case as well a key ingredient of the method is to use ILP to improve feasible solutions found during the search. Finally, the idea of exploiting ILP to explore promising neighborhoods of feasible solutions has been also investigated in the context of general purpose integer programs; see, e.g., Fischetti and Lodi [10] and Danna et al. [6] . The methods presented in [6]  and  [10] are currently embedded in the commercial mixed integer programming solver Cplex [16] . The paper is organized as follows. Section 2 recalls the main works proposed in the literature for OVRP. In Section 3 we describe a neighborhood for OVRP and the ILP model which allows to implicitly define and explore the presented neighborhood. The implementation of the heuristic improvement procedure is given in Section 4 , while Section 5 reports the computational experiments on benchmark capacitated OVRP instances from the literature (with/without distance constraints), comparing the presented method with the most effective metaheuristic techniques proposed for OVRP. Some conclusions are finally drawn in Section 6 . 2. Literature review The classical VRP is a fundamental combinatorial optimization problem which has been widely studied in the literature (see, e.g., Toth and Vigo [28] and Cordeau et al. [5] ). At first glance, having open routes instead of closed ones looks like a minor change, and in fact OVRP can be also formulated as a VRP on a directed graph, by fixing to 0 the cost of each arc entering the depot. However, if the undirected case is considered, the open version turns out to be more general than the closed one. Indeed, as shown by Letchford et al. [17] , any closed VRP on n customers in a complete undirected graph can be transformed into an OVRP on n customers, but there is no transformation in the reverse direction. Further, there are many practical applications in which OVRP naturally arises. This happens, of course, when a company does not own a vehicle fleet, and hence customers are served by hired vehicles which are not required to come back to the depot (see, e.g., Tarantilis et al. [26] ). But the open model also arises in pick-up and delivery applications, where each vehicle starts at the depot, delivers to a set of customers and then it is required to visit the same customers in reverse order, picking up items that have to be backhauled to the depot. An application of this type is described in Schrage [23] . Further areas of application, involving the planning of train services and of school bus routes, are reported by Fu et al. [13] .