  The Vehicle Routing Problem with Time Windows (VRPTW) is a well-known and complex combinatorial problem, which has received considerable attention in recent years. This problem has been addressed using many different techniques including both exact and heuristic methods. The VRPTW benchmark problems of Solomon [Algorithms for the vehicle routing and scheduling problems with time window constraints, Operations Research 1987; 35(2): 254–65] have been most commonly chosen to evaluate and compare all algorithms. Results from exact methods have been improved considerably because of parallel implementations and modern branch-and-cut techniques. However, 24 out of the 56 high order instances from Solomon's original test set still remain unsolved. Additionally, in many cases a prohibitive time is needed to find the exact solution. Many of the heuristic methods developed have proved to be efficient in identifying good solutions in reasonable amounts of time. Unfortunately, whilst the research efforts based on exact methods have been focused on the total travel distance, the focus of almost all heuristic attempts has been on the number of vehicles. Consequently, it is more difficult to compare and take advantage of the strong points from each approach. This paper proposes a robust heuristic approach for the VRPTW using travel distance as the main objective through an efficient genetic algorithm and a set partitioning formulation. The tests were produced using real numbers and truncated data type, allowing a direct comparison of its results against previously published heuristic and exact methods. Furthermore, computational results show that the proposed heuristic approach outperforms all previously known and published heuristic methods in terms of the minimal travel distance. Keywords Vehicle routing problem ; Hybrid algorithm ; Genetic algorithm 1. Introduction The vehicle routing problem with time windows (VRPTW) has been extensively studied in the operations research community. Firstly, because VRPTW is still one of the most difficult problems in combinatorial optimization and consequently presents a great challenge. Secondly, in a more practical aspect, this problem contributes directly to a real opportunity to reduce costs in the important area of logistics. Transportation management, and more specifically vehicle routing, has a considerable economical impact on all logistic systems. In the VRPTW, a fleet of K identical vehicles supplies goods to N customers. All vehicles have the same capacity Q . For each customer i   , i=1,…,N i = 1 , … , N , the demand of goods, q i q i , the service time s i s i , and the time window [a i ,b i ] [ a i , b i ] to meet the demand in i   are known. The component s i s i represents the loading or unloading service time at the customer i   and a i a i describes the earliest time when it is possible to start the service. If any vehicle arrives at customer i   before a i a i it must wait. The vehicle must start the customer service before b i b i . This type of time window constraints is known as a hard time window.   All vehicle routes start and finish at the central depot. Each customer must be visited once. The locations of the central depot and all customers, the minimal distance d ij d ij and the travel time t ij t ij between all locations are given. The objective is to find the feasible solution with the minimal total travel distance or with the minimal number of vehicles. In this paper, only the first objective is considered. Significant improvements in Solomon's benchmark problem instances were established by Rochat [1] using a tabu search metaheuristic method. In that publication (1995), Rochat improved or reached 47 heuristic solutions from 56 Solomon's original instances. Another important characteristic is the post-optimization technique used by Rochat. This technique consists of saving all partial solutions identified during the tabu search algorithm for future usage. The routes of each intermediate solution are included in a set T. Then, after the stop criterion of tabu search has been achieved, the best solution that can be built using routes from T may be found by solving a set partitioning problem using CPLEX MIP software. Although Rochat has minimized the travel distance (TD) for the capacitated vehicle routing problem (CVRP), their results for the Solomon's test (VRPTW) were obtained using the number of vehicles (NV) as the first objective. In general, when heuristic methods were used, the number of vehicles was chosen as the first objective and the total TD only as the second. However, considering the results for the Solomon's test problems, the number of vehicles found was the same in many works, so the second objective, TD, was the distinguishing criterion. In fact, NV and TD represent concurrent objectives. Strategies which treat each objective separately in distinguished phases, have reached the best results at the moment in the literature. Berger et al. [2] have improved some of the results of Solomon's benchmark using parallel two-population co-evolution genetic algorithms, Pop1 and Pop2. The objective in Pop1 is to minimize the total distance for a fixed number of vehicles using feasible individual solutions within the population. On the other hand, in Pop2 the individual solutions have the number of vehicles fixed in one unit less than in Pop1, hence in principle they are infeasible solutions. The GA objective in Pop2 is to minimize the total violated time windows. The global objective is primarily to minimize NV and then to minimize TD as a secondary objective. Each time a feasible individual is found in Pop2, the population Pop1 is replaced by Pop2 and the fixed numbers of vehicles considered in both populations are decreased by one. The algorithm ensures that at least one feasible solution is present in Pop1. Therefore the difference in the number of vehicle in Pop1 and Pop2 is always equal to one unit.