Password: In the Multiple disposal facilities and multiple inventory locations rollon–rolloff vehicle routing problem (M-RRVRP), one of the very important pickup and disposal problems in the sanitation industry, tractors move large trailers, one at a time, between customer locations such as construction sites and shopping centers, disposal facilities and inventory locations. In this paper, we model the M-RRVRP as a time constrained vehicle routing problem on a multigraph (TVRP-MG). We then formulate the TVRP-MG as a set partitioning problem with an additional constraint and describe an exact method for solving the TVRP-MG. This exact method is based on a bounding procedure that combines three lower bounds derived from different relaxations of the formulation of the problem. Further, we obtain a valid upper bound and show how this bounding procedure can transform the solution of a Lagrangean lower bound into a feasible solution. Our computational results show that the proposed method is very effective in deriving an optimal or near optimal solution to the M-RRVRP in a reasonable amount of computing time. Since the capacitated vehicle routing problem (CVRP) can be transformed into a TVRP-MG, we tested our procedure on 11 instances of the CVRP. Our computational results show that our procedure very effectively found the optimal solution to 7 of the 11 instances of the CVRP. In many cases, our procedure was at least 10 times faster than the procedure proposed by Fukasawa et al. Integer programming and combinatorial optimization, vol. 10. Lecture notes in computer science, vol. 3064. Berlin: Springer; 2004. p. 1–15. Both our procedure and the procedure of Fukasawa et al. Integer programming and combinatorial optimization, vol. 10. Lecture notes in computer science, vol. 3064. Berlin: Springer; 2004. p. 1–15 solved problem E-n76-k10, the most famous CVRP instance that until recently was unsolved. Keywords Vehicle routing ; Set partitioning ; Dual ascent ; Lagrangean relaxation and column generation 0. Introduction The Multiple disposal facilities and multiple inventory locations rollon–rolloff vehicle routing problem (M-RRVRP) is a vehicle routing problem (VRP) that arises in the sanitation industry. The n demands for service in the M-RRVRP are the large trailers positioned at locations in the region such as construction sites, downtown areas and shopping centers. Each demand for service can be positioned at a different customer location in the region. Tractors move these trailers between the customer locations and the disposal facilities and inventory locations. At the disposal facilities , full trailers are emptied. At the inventory locations , empty trailers are extracted from inventory, attached to tractors and moved to the customer locations or detached from tractors and stored in inventory. We assume that there is an unlimited inventory of empty trailers at each inventory location. A solution to the M-RRVRP consists of a set of routes for a fleet of m tractors (all identical), stationed at a single depot that service the n demands for service. Each demand for service generates a trip . A trip specifies the sequence of movements of a tractor among customer locations, disposal facilities and inventory locations in servicing the trailer. Each trip is assumed to come from one of the five possible trip types defined in Section 2 of this paper. We believe that these five trip types cover virtually all possible trip types encountered in practice. The capacity of the tractor is one trailer as a tractor can only service one trailer at a time, due to the size and weight of the trailers. A tractor performs multiple trips on its daily route . A route has the restriction that the duration of the route can be no longer than L hours. Most daily rollon–rolloff problems in the sanitation industry consist of no more than 200 trips and the daily route for a tractor generally involves no more than about 15 trips. All tractors are housed at the same depot. A solution to the M-RRVRP assigns each trip to a tractor and determines a sequence for servicing the trips on each tractor route. The objective in determining the solution to the M-RRVRP is to minimize both the number of tractors used and the total fixed and variable costs incurred in carrying out the routes. It is assumed that the trips to be serviced by the tractors on a given day are known before the routes for the tractors are formed. All routes are formed at the same time and in advance of the actual execution of the routes. The M-RRVRP analyzed in this paper is a generalization of the Rollon–rolloff routing problems for the sanitation industry considered by Cristallo [1] , De Meulemeester et al. [2] , and Bodin et al. [3] . De Meulemeester et al. [2] use two of the five trip types considered in this paper, assumes multiple disposal facilities, a single inventory location and a single depot where the inventory location and the depot are the same location. De Meulemeester et al. [2] describe two heuristics as well as an exact enumerative algorithm. Bodin et al. [3] use the first four of the five trip types considered in this paper, assume a single depot, a single disposal facility, and a single inventory location where the disposal facility and the inventory location need not be the same location. Bodin et al. [3] describe a mathematical programming formulation, two lower bounds and four heuristic algorithms. In Section 2 , we show that the M-RRVRP can be modeled as a single depot time constrained VRP on a directed MultiGraph (TVRP-MG). Our assumptions for the TVRP-MG are as follows: all vehicles are identical, and have unlimited capacity, the duration of each route is no larger than L , and there can be multiple parallel arcs between each pair of vertices where each arc has either a different cost or travel time that are not linear dependent. The arcs from the multigraph used on the routes are chosen to minimize the total cost of all the routes while ensuring that the sum of the travel times of the arcs and service times at the vertices on each route does not exceed L . The TVRP-MG becomes the classical time constrained VRP on a simple graph (TVRP) when the multigraph contains at most one arc for every pair of vertices. To our knowledge, the TVRP has received relatively little attention in the literature. Exact branch and bound algorithms for the TVRP and for the time constrained capacitated VRP (TCVRP) are described by Laporte et al. [4]  and  [5] . Since these two articles appeared, we are unaware of any paper that describes a new exact algorithm specifically designed for the TVRP and TCVRP. Moreover, we believe that the exact branch and bound and branch and cut methods that have been published for the classical capacitated vehicle routing problem (CVRP) (see the surveys of Toth and Vigo [6] and Naddef and Rinaldi [7] ) cannot be easily extended to solve either the TVRP or the TVRP-MG. The exact methods proposed for the VRP with time windows (VRPTW) can be directly used to solve both the TVRP and the TCVRP since any instance of the TVRP and the TCVRP can be transformed in a straightforward way into the VRPTW. For state of the art surveys of both exact and heuristic methods for the VRPTW, see [8] , [9]  and  [10] . The most effective exact methods for the VRPTW are based on the set partitioning (SP) formulation of the VRPTW. In the SP, each variable corresponds to a feasible route. The SP model can effectively represent real-world applications as the SP model accommodates all constraints pertaining to the feasibility of a single route and allows the route cost to depend only on the route itself. Although the number of variables in the SP can grow exponentially, the SP can be solved very effectively since it can produce tight LP relaxations. The SP-based exact methods for the VRPTW can be modified to solve the TVRP-MG by adapting the algorithm that iteratively finds the route of minimum marginal cost with respect to the optimal dual solution of the master problem to the multigraph. However, the methods based on column generation are time-consuming as the LP relaxation of the master problem is usually highly degenerate and degeneracy implies alternative optimal dual solutions. Consequently, the generation of new columns and their associated variables may not change the value of the objective function of the master problem, the master problem may become large, and the overall method may become slow computationally. The exact procedure we propose for solving the SP formulation of the TVRP-MG is based on the methods for the CVRP proposed by Mingozzi et al. [11] and by Hadjicostantinou et al. [12] . Further, it introduces new effective bounding procedures for solving this problem.