Password: This paper addresses a variant of the vehicle routing problem with time windows (VRPTW) that targets the balancing of the load carried by each active vehicle (balanced cargo VRPTW or BCVRPTW). A new approach, based on the free disposal hull (FDH) method of data envelopment analysis, is proposed; it consists of an initial, feasible route generation procedure that employs an effective heuristic for the VRPTW, followed by an iterative method for selecting routes on the efficiency frontier, according to the criteria of the BCVRPTW and the notion of non-dominated solutions embedded within FDH. This new approach produces, according to our computational evaluation, very good results for the BCVRPTW, and can serve as the basis for solving real-life vehicle routing problems. Keywords Vehicle routing with time windows ; Heuristics ; Data envelopment analysis ; Free disposal hull method The vehicle routing problem (VRP) is one of the most extensively studied problems in the optimization literature, starting with the seminal papers of Dantzig and Ramser (1959) and Clarke and Wright (1964) , and offering now a wealth of heuristic and metaheuristic approaches that are surveyed in the papers of Laporte (1992) , Gendreau et al. (1997) , Tarantilis et al. (2005) and Cordeau et al. (2007) . The attention received by the VRP is due to its wide applicability and its importance in determining efficient strategies for reducing operational costs in distribution networks. Today, exact VRP methods have a size limit of 50–100 orders depending on the VRP variant and the time–response requirements; consequently, current research concentrates on approximate algorithms that are capable of finding high quality solutions in limited time, in order to be applicable to real-life problem instances that are characterized by large vehicle fleets and affect significantly logistics and distribution strategies. The vehicle routing problem with time windows is an extension of the VRP, and seeks to determine the optimal number of routes and the optimal sequence of customers (from a set of geographically dispersed locations that pose daily demand for deliveries) visited by each vehicle, taking into account constraints imposed by vehicle capacity, service times and time windows, defined by the earliest and latest feasible delivery time. Several recent papers provide the latest developments in the field of VRPTW; interested readers can refer to Cordeau et al. (2007) and Braysy and Gendreau, 2005a  and  Braysy and Gendreau, 2005b . The majority of the methods proposed to-date minimizes the number of vehicles and the total distance traveled, using a combined objective of the vehicle fixed cost and the variable transportation cost. However, real-life routing problems exhibit a rich set of objectives coupled with a large set of constraints. It is typical to require balanced load distribution among vehicles that could guarantee equivalent travel plus service times for each of them, and would not cause driver dissatisfaction or union problems. Furthermore, customer priorities, sequence dependencies (e.g., serve one customer before some others), loading constraints, customer incompatibilities, vehicle and customer qualifications, etc., may often arise in practice. Such objectives and constraints have been usually omitted in most research papers in the academic literature. The research community has recently turned to variants of the VRP that accommodate practical realities; these extended routing problems are often called Rich VRPs and include, among others the multiple depot VRP (customers get their deliveries from several depots), the stochastic VRP (demand, travel times, service times or other problem parameters may exhibit random behavior), the periodic VRP (delivery is performed periodically over several days), the split delivery VRP (several vehicles may serve a single customer), the VRP with backhauls (vehicles must pick up load from customers after all deliveries are performed), the VRP with pick ups and deliveries (vehicle pick up and deliver simultaneously), the dynamic VRP (information can change during the transportation process) and the routing problems coupled with inventory and production decisions in an integrated manner—see, e.g., Zäpfel and Bögl (2008) , Jin et al. (2007) and Eliiyi et al. (2009) . Jozefowieza et al. (2008) provide a recent review of multi-objective routing problems and mention specific variants of the VRP that deal with balanced driver workload or other balancing objectives, e.g., balancing the number of customers visited, the quantity of goods delivered, the time required or the tour length. Furthermore, the notion of balanced cargo has been explicitly considered by Lee and Ueng (1999) and Lee and Tseng (1998) for the distribution of agricultural products. However, to our knowledge, no approach has been previously proposed for the problem we consider in this paper, i.e., the balanced cargo vehicle routing problem with time windows (BCVRPTW). This variant of VRP targets, apart from minimizing the number of vehicles and the total distance traveled, also the balancing of the load carried by each active member of the vehicle fleet. This is of critical importance in real-life situations where labor laws and practical concerns for employee satisfaction dictate the equivalent distribution of the load to vehicles that perform actual deliveries, in addition to customer requirements for time window constraints that emanate from just-in-time practices. To solve the BCVRPTW we employ a data envelopment analysis (DEA) framework. DEA was first proposed by Charnes et al. (1978) and is based on a linear program that, without subjective or economical parameters (weights, prices, etc.), evaluates the efficiency of “units” such as hospitals, educational institutions, branches of public or private organizations, etc. Some recent approaches have adopted the concepts of DEA for routing and other optimization problems (see, e.g., Coslovich et al., 2006 ; Chiou et al., 2006 ; Ruiz-Torres and Lopez, 2004 ; De Borger et al., 2002 ; Tulkens, 1993 ). We use the efficient frontier provided by a special version of DEA, the free disposal hull method (FDH) introduced by Deprins et al. (1984) , to select the routes that are included within the final solution based on their efficiency, which is calculated according to the multiple objectives of the BCVRPTW. The proposed solution schema satisfies all realistic objectives and constraints of the routing problem under consideration. The remainder of the paper is organized as follows: Section 2 models the BCVRPTW as a non-linear binary program. Section 3 presents the basics of the FDH approach and provides the details of the proposed solution approach, including the route generation, the frontier formulation and the route selection procedures. Section 4 reports the results of our computational experiments on the benchmark data sets of Solomon (1987) ; furthermore, within this section we present an extension of a previously developed industrial case to the balanced cargo variant of the VRP, to demonstrate the practical applicability of the proposed approach to real-life problems. Finally, Section 5 summarizes our conclusions and offers directions for further research. 2. Problem formulation The BCVRPTW can be stated as follows: find a set of closed routes, for a fleet of | V| identical vehicles ( V : set of available vehicles) with known capacity C , servicing a set of | L |−1= n −1 customers, from a central depot at minimum cost. L is the set of customers including the depot, which is a distinct node of the underlying connected graph. Indices i , j and u refer to customers and take values between 2 and n , while index i =1 refers to the depot; an additional index k counts the vehicles ( k =1,…,| V| ). Vehicles are initially located at the central depot. Each customer i poses a demand q i , requires a service time, s i , has a time window [ e i , l i ], and is serviced by exactly one vehicle. There is a cost c ij (related to the travel time t ij and distance d ij ) associated with the path from customer i to customer j . Furthermore, a fixed acquisition cost w k is required for the activation of vehicle k ∈ V ; appropriate normalization with respect to the variable costs c ij is necessary for w k (i.e., the acquisition cost of each vehicle is spread across its useful life according to the depreciation method employed). Each route originates and terminates at the central depot and must satisfy: (a) capacity constraints (total quantity of goods delivered cannot exceed vehicle capacity C ) and (b) time window constraints, i.e., a vehicle cannot start servicing customer i before e i and after l i . However, the vehicle can arrive before e i and wait for service. Also, let Q k denote the total cargo of vehicle k   and Q ¯ the anticipated average vehicle load; note that the latter is a problem-specific parameter related to the results of the classic VRPTW without the cargo balancing requirements. Finally, let γ be the weight factor reflecting the contribution of the cargo imbalances in the objective function of the BCVRPTW.