  The single vehicle routing problem with deliveries and selective pickups (SVRPDSP) is defined on a graph in which pickup and delivery demands are associated with customer vertices. The difference between this problem and the single vehicle routing problem with pickups and deliveries (SVRPPD) lies in the fact that it is no longer necessary to satisfy all pickup demands. In the SVRPDSP a pickup revenue is associated with each vertex, and the pickup demand at that vertex will be collected only if it is profitable to do so. The net cost of a route is equal to the sum of routing costs, minus the total collected revenue. The aim is to design a vehicle route of minimum net cost, visiting each customer, performing all deliveries, and a subset of the pickups. A mixed integer linear programming formulation is proposed for the SVRPDSP. Classical construction and improvement heuristics, as well as a tabu search heuristic (TS), are developed and tested on a number of instances derived from VRPLIB. Computational results show that the solutions produced by the proposed heuristics are near-optimal. There is also some evidence that the best solutions identified by the heuristics are frequently non-Hamiltonian and may contain one or two customers visited twice. Keywords Pickup and delivery problems ; Selective pickups ; Tabu search ; Reverse logistics 1. Introduction The single vehicle routing problem with deliveries and selective pickups   (SVRPDSP) is defined as follows. Let G=(V,A) G = ( V , A ) be a graph in which V={0,…,n} V = { 0 , … , n } defines the vertex set and A={(i,j):i,j∈V,i≠j} A = { ( i , j ) : i , j ∈ V , i ≠ j } defines the arc set. Vertex 0 is a depot, while the remaining vertices are customers. A non-negative routing cost c ij c ij is associated with each arc (i,j)∈A ( i , j ) ∈ A . A vehicle of capacity Q is based at the depot. Customer i   has a pickup demand p i p i and a delivery demand d i d i . These demands satisfy the conditions d i > 0 , p i ⩾ 0 ( i = 1 , … , n ) , and ∑ i = 1 n d i ⩽ Q . In the SVRPDSP, all deliveries must be performed, but pickups are optional. The pickup demand of customer i i is either fully collected, in which case it generates a revenue r i r i , or it is not collected at all. In other words, partial pickups are not allowed. The SVRPDSP consists of designing a vehicle route containing the depot and all customers, satisfying the following conditions: (1) all deliveries are performed; (2) some pickups may be performed; (3) the net cost of the route (routing cost minus collected revenue) is minimized. This definition does not specify the number of visits made at each customer. If no pickup is made, or if the pickup and the delivery are performed during the same visit, the number of visits is one, and it is two otherwise. The SVRPDSP is NP-hard since it reduces to the travelling salesman problem   (TSP) if p i =0 p i = 0 for i=1,…,n i = 1 , … , n .