Password: The capacitated vehicle routing problem with three-dimensional loading constraints combines capacitated vehicle routing and three-dimensional loading with additional packing constraints concerning, for example, unloading operations. An efficient hybrid algorithm including a tabu search algorithm for routing and a tree search algorithm for loading is introduced. Computational results are presented for all publicly available test instances. Most of the best solutions previously reported in literature have been improved while the computational effort is drastically reduced compared to other methods. Keywords Capacitated vehicle routing ; Loading ; Three-dimensional packing ; Tabu search ; Tree search 1. Introduction This paper deals with the capacitated vehicle routing problem with three-dimensional (3D) loading constraints (3L-CVRP) that represents a combination of vehicle routing and 3D container loading which was introduced by Gendreau et al. [17] . The 3L-CVRP results from the capacitated vehicle routing problem if the goods to be shipped to the customers are rectangular 3D boxes of a given size that are to be packed into identical rectangular loading spaces of vehicles. Hence, a problem solution comprises a set of routes and a packing plan for each route. A packing plan must include placements of all boxes of the customers that are visited on the given route. Moreover, each packing plan has to meet some constraints, e.g., a weight limit for the boxes in a vehicle has to be observed. Compared to the original capacitated vehicle routing problem (CVRP) the 3L-CVRP allows for a more detailed modeling of mixed cargo transportation by vehicles. First, with shipments of packaged goods the practicability of a planned route can only be guaranteed unerringly if the route is accompanied by a 3D packing plan. In other words, modeling a practical use case as 3L-CVRP has the advantage that calculated routing plans can definitely be implemented. Moreover, several frequently occurring packing constraints, e.g., concerning the loading of fragile goods, can only be considered as part of 3L-CVRP (cf. [22] ). Thus the 3L-CVRP is of high practical relevance. On the other hand, the 3L-CVRP is an extremely hard and challenging optimization problem since it results as a combination of two problems – routing of vehicles and loading boxes into them – that are already NP-hard and difficult to solve in practice. In this paper a hybrid algorithm for solving the 3L-CVRP is proposed, consisting of a tabu search algorithm (TSA) for vehicle routing and a tree search algorithm (TRSA) for packing boxes. In comparison with all available 3L-CVRP solution procedures the hybrid algorithm will show its strength in terms of solution quality and efficiency. The remainder of the paper is organized as follows: In Section 2 the 3L-CVRP is formulated, while in Section 3 the relevant literature is reviewed. In Section 4 the hybrid algorithm is described and in Section 5 the method is compared to other algorithms by numerical experiments. Finally, some conclusions are drawn in Section 6 . 2. Problem formulation We are given v max identical vehicles with a rectangular loading space with length L , width W and height H . Let V ={0,1,…, n } be a set of n +1 nodes that correspond to a depot (node 0) and n customers (nodes 1,…, n ). Let E be a set of undirected edges ( i , j ) that connect all node pairs and let G =( V , E ) be the resulting graph. Let a distance c ij ( c ij >0) be assigned to each edge ( i , j ) (0≤ i < j ≤ n ). Each customer i ( i =1,…, n ) is to be supplied with a set of m i rectangular packing pieces (boxes) I ik ( k =1,…, m i ) which are initially located at the depot. Let the box I ik have the length l ik , the width w ik , and the height h ik ( i =1,…, n , k =1,…, m i ). Let the loading space of each vehicle be embedded in the first octant of a Cartesian coordinates system in such a way that the length, width and height of the loading space lie parallel to the x , y and z axes. The placement of a box I ik in a loading space is given by the coordinates x ik , y ik and z ik of the corner of the box that is closest to the origin of the coordinates system; in addition, an orientation index o ik indicates which of the possible spatial orientations is selected ( i =1,…, n , k =1,…, m i ). A spatial orientation of a box is given by a one-to-one mapping of the three box dimensions and the three coordinate directions. A packing plan P for a loading space comprises one or more placements and is regarded as feasible if the following three conditions hold: (FP1) each placed box lies completely within the loading space; (FP2) any two boxes that are placed in the same truck loading space do not overlap; (FP3) each placed box lies parallel to the surface areas of the loading space. Fig. 1 shows a loading space with placed boxes. Each vehicle is rear loaded. Fig. 1.  A feasible route R is a sequence of three or more nodes that starts and ends at the depot and a customer must not occur more than once in the sequence. A solution of the 3L-CVRP is a set of v ordered pairs ( R l , P l ), where R l is a route and P l is a packing plan ( l =1,…, v ). To be feasible, a solution must fulfill the following three conditions: (F1) all routes R l and packing plans P l are feasible ( l =1,…, v ); (F2) each customer i belongs to exactly one route R l ( i =1,…, n ); (F3) the packing plan P l for a route R l contains exactly one placement for each customer i of R l and each of its boxes I ik ( k =1,…, m i ). Additionally, the following packing constraints are involved: ( C1 ) Unloading sequence constraint. When customer i ( i =1,…, n ) is visited, it must be possible to unload all his boxes I ik ( k =1,…, m i ) exclusively using movements parallel to the longitudinal axis of the loading space. Consequently, no box demanded by another customer that is visited later than customer i must be placed above a box I ik (of customer i ) or between I ik and the rear of the vehicle (cf. Fig. 1 ). This constraint is also referred to as the LIFO (last in, first out) constraint. ( C2 ) Weight constraint . Each box I ik has a positive weight d ik ( i =1,.., n , k =1,…, m i ) and the total weight of all the boxes placed in a vehicle must not exceed a maximum load weight D. ( C3 ) Orientation constraint. The orientation of all boxes is fixed with respect to height while horizontal 90° rotations are permitted. ( C4 ) Support constraint. If a box is not placed on the floor, a certain percentage a of its base area is to be supported by other boxes. ( C5 ) Stacking constraint. A fragility flag f ik is assigned to each box I ik ( i =1,…, n , k =1,…, m i ). If a box is fragile ( f ik =1) only other fragile boxes may be placed on its top surface, whereas both fragile and non-fragile boxes may be stacked on a non-fragile box ( f ik =0). The 3L-CVRP consists of determining a feasible solution with at most v max routes that minimizes the total travel distance (of all routes) and meets the constraints (C1) to (C5). Fig. 2 illustrates a simple 3L-CVRP instance and the routes of a possible solution (while edges that do not belong to these routes are not shown).