  A vehicle routing problem with pickup and delivery time windows is studied with the objective of determining resource requirements and daily routing by minimizing the sum of vehicle fixed costs and travelling costs. The multiple use of vehicles can reduce costs. Such a cooperative strategy, which has received little attention in past literature but which occurs in practice, may generate further savings. The strategy is studied here, with the single or multiple use of vehicles. Vehicles are allowed to travel to transfer items to another vehicle returning to the depot, provided no time window constraint is violated. This is modelled by an exact integer programming formulation which includes the solutions of the independent strategy. The proposed models are compared with a construction heuristic [Lu, Q., & Dessouky, M. M. (2006). A new insertion-based construction heuristic for solving pickup and delivery problem with time windows. European Journal of Operational Research, 175 (2) 672–687] which was applied to this problem. Experiments with instances generated from real-life data and simulated data show (i) significant savings over the construction heuristic as problem size grows; and (ii) multiple use of vehicles with a cooperative strategy may achieve cost savings over the independent strategy. Keywords Vehicle routing ; Pickup and delivery time windows ; Cooperative strategy ; Integer programming 1. Introduction This study was motivated by the daily operations of a local courier service of a multi-national logistics company. With the recent growth in demand for express delivery services, studying the resources required is crucial in setting contract prices for client projects in which the demand data can be assumed to be static during the contract period. With good cost estimation techniques, costs could be managed more easily. On the daily operational level, courier or vehicle routes need to be determined. Daily route sheets are issued to staff and signed by customers to acknowledge receipt. Each customer here is associated with two time window requirements: one for document pickup at the customer site and another for delivery to the mail centre to meet the designated flight departure time. The current problem belongs to the class of static-deterministic pickup and delivery problem with time windows (PDPTW) where there are many pickup points and only a single, common delivery point at the mail centre (or depot). Pickups occur before delivery to the mail centre. For urban deliveries, the vehicles could also represent couriers and letters/small parcels, which usually are not constrained by vehicle capacity. The objective is to find the minimum cost solution to servicing all customers and satisfying the time window constraints in this special case of PDPTW – the many-to-one pickup and delivery problem with time window constraints and without capacity constraints. This includes determining the number of vehicles required and the set of vehicle routes servicing the customers. According to a PDP survey paper by Savelsbergh and Sol (1995) , “In the presence of time constraints the problem of finding a feasible pickup and delivery plan with time constraints is NP -hard.” Hence, the current problem is also NP -hard. This paper contributes by modelling the cooperating strategy in vehicle routing problem (VRP) with single or multiple use of vehicles. Independent vehicle operation is a common assumption in the literature; however, the multiple use of vehicles with a cooperative strategy can reduce cost. The cooperative strategy occurs in practice in parcel delivery services with multiple delivery resources, but is rarely explored and formulated for PDPTW. Studying the impact of cooperative strategy would provide new insights, but this has not received much attention in VRPs as compared with cooperative control systems for robots operating in manufacturing cells or unmanned aircraft in military operations. This study analyzes a VRP with PDPTW in four operational modes: independent single-route vehicle operations; the cooperative strategy applied on single-route vehicles; the multiple use of independent vehicles (or multi-route strategy); and the cooperative strategy to examine the cost savings and difference in route design. A route is defined as a trip starting from the depot and ending at the same depot after picking up customers’ documents along the route. Multiple use of vehicles allows each vehicle to be assigned to multiple routes (or a sequence of single routes) scheduled with no violation of constraints. The cooperative strategy here allows vehicles (or couriers) to travel to another customer location to transfer documents to a vehicle heading back to the mail centre, provided the delivery time constraints are satisfied. An analogy could be drawn with the savings algorithm ( Clarke & Wright, 1964 ) where routes are merged to save travel distances and vehicles. The difference here is that not all vehicles operate independently. Some may cooperate, depending on problem data. In this paper, insights are generated on a favorable operating strategy under a given spatial distribution for customers and depot. The paper is organized as follows. Section 2 reviews the literature on pickup and delivery problems with time window constraints, related problems and the methodologies. Section 3 describes the model assumptions. Section 4 presents an exact model for the independent strategy for single- and multi-route vehicles. Section 5 proposes a model for the cooperative strategy. Section 6 reports on the computational experiments, followed by the managerial implications in Section 7 . Finally, the conclusion and future research are discussed in Section 8 . 2. Literature review A survey of pickup and delivery problems (PDP) was conducted by Savelsbergh and Sol (1995) . The vehicle routing problem (VRP) is a special case of PDP in which either all pickup points or all delivery points are located at the depot. The current problem belongs to the static m -PDP with time windows in which each customer is characterized by a pair of pickup and delivery requests to be serviced by the same vehicle within its respective time window. Waiting is allowed when a vehicle is carrying items on board. The fleet consists of m identical vehicles all starting out from the depot, and all delivery points occur at the depot. Hence, the problem can be regarded as an m -VRP with pickup and delivery time windows. Depending on the operating constraints, pickup and delivery problems can have various classifications. Table 1 gives the classification with respect to problem structure and solution approach. This paper introduces a new category of cooperative vehicle operations ( Table 1 a: Type VIII). The present problem belongs to the class with static-deterministic demand where the problem is solved once, ahead of the actual delivery time. There is only a single depot with multiple identical uncapacitated vehicles. For each customer, pickup occurs before delivery and the objective is to find a set of independent and cooperative vehicle routes, respectively, in order to minimize the total cost (comprising vehicle fixed cost and travelling cost). Exact and heuristic methods and the literature on PDP or VRP with time windows related to the present problem structure are discussed in the paper. Table 1. Classification of VRP with pickup and delivery time windows (a) With respect to problem structure I. Availability of transportation requests • Static-deterministic • Pickup before delivery • Delivery-first, pickup-second • Simultaneous pickups and deliveries • Mixed pickups and deliveries VI. Objective function • Minimize duration • Minimize completion time • Minimize travel time • Minimize route length • Minimize client inconvenience • Minimize number of vehicles • Minimize cost (or Maximize profit) VII. Wait allowed (when carrying items) • Cooperative (b) With respect to solution approach Exact Heuristic • Integer programming • Relaxation of set partitioning (or set covering) model and column generation • Dynamic programming • Lagrangian relaxation • Construction and insertion • Metaheuristic (tabu search, genetic algorithm) •