Password: This paper introduces a new hybrid algorithmic approach based on Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO) for successfully solving one of the most popular supply chain management problems, the Vehicle Routing Problem with Stochastic Demands (VRPSD). The VRPSD is a well known NP-hard problem in which a vehicle with finite capacity leaves from the depot with full load and has to serve a set of customers whose demands are known only when the vehicle arrives to them. A number of different variants of the PSO are tested and the one that performs better is used for solving benchmark instances from the literature. ► We solved the Vehicle Routing Problem with Stochastic Demands. ► We used a hybrid approach based on Particle Swarm Optimization. ► We tested a number of variants of Particle Swarm Optimization. ► We tested the algorithm in a number of benchmark instances. ► We compared the algorithm with Differential Evolution and Genetic Algorithms. Keywords Particle Swarm Optimization ; Path relinking ; Vehicle Routing Problem with Stochastic Demands The Vehicle Routing Problem (VRP) or the Capacitated Vehicle Routing problem (CVRP) is often described as the problem in which vehicles based on a central depot are required to visit geographically dispersed customers in order to fulfill known customer demands. The vehicle routing problem was first introduced by Dantzig and Ramser [13] . Since then a number of variants of the classic Vehicle Routing Problem has been proposed in order to incorporate more constraints like time windows, multi-depot, stochastic or dynamic demands. The reader can find more detailed descriptions of the algorithms proposed for the CVRP and its variants in the survey papers [6] , [7] , [16] , [18] , [19] , [35] , [34] , [40]  and  [55] and in the books [21] , [22] , [46]  and  [59] . In Stochastic Vehicle Routing Problems (SVRPs) one parameter of the problem, like customers, customers’ demands or customers’ travel and service times, is a stochastic variable that follows a known (or unknown) probability distribution. Stochastic VRPs differ from the Capacitated Vehicle Routing Problems in several fundamental aspects. The concept of a solution is different, several fundamental properties of deterministic VRPs no longer hold in the stochastic case, and solution methodologies are considerably more intricate. Since they combine the characteristics of stochastic and integer programs, SVRPs are often regarded as computationally intractable [17] . The Vehicle Routing Problem with Stochastic Demands (VRPSD) is a well known NP-hard problem, in which a vehicle with finite capacity leaves from the depot with full load and has to serve a set of customers whose demand is known only when the vehicle arrives to them (this is the main difference of the VRPSD from the Capacitated VRP where all the customer demands are known beforehand). A route begins from the depot and visits each customer exactly once and returns to the depot. This is called an a priori tour. The a priori tour can be seen as a template for the visiting sequence of all customers. In a given instance, the customers should be visited based on the sequence of the a priori tour but the final route includes, also, returns to the depot when the vehicle needs replenishment. The nodes from which the vehicle returns to the depot are stochastic points [53] . Some of the applications of a SVRP are [17] , [50]  and  [53] : • delivery of home heating oil, • delivery of petrol to petrol stations, • garbage collection, • the provision of bank automates with cash, • the collection of cash from bank branches, • collect milk from different producers, • distribution of products in grocery stores. Due to the difficulty of the Vehicle Routing Problem with Stochastic Demand and to the fact that it is an NP-hard problem the instances with a large number of customers cannot be solved in optimality within reasonable time. For this reason, a number of approximation techniques (metaheuristic and evolutionary algorithms) were proposed for the solution of the problem. In this paper, the Vehicle Routing Problem with Stochastic Demand is solved using one of these algorithms, the Particle Swarm Optimization algorithm. Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO) is a population-based swarm intelligence algorithm that was originally proposed by Kennedy and Eberhart [30] . PSO simulates the social behavior of social organisms by using the physical movements of the individuals in the swarm. Its mechanism enhances and adapts to the global and local exploration. Most applications of PSO have concentrated on the optimization in continuous space while some work has been done to the discrete optimization [31]  and  [52] . Recent complete surveys for the Particle Swarm Optimization can be found in [1] , [2] , [11]  and  [47] . The Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO) is a very popular optimization method and its wide use, mainly during the last years, is due to the number of advantages that this method has, compared to other optimization methods. Some of the key advantages are that this method does not need the calculation of derivatives that the knowledge of good solutions is retained by all particles and that particles in the swarm share information between them. PSO is less sensitive to the nature of the objective function, can be used for stochastic objective functions and can easily escape from local minima. Concerning its implementation, PSO can easily be programmed, has few parameters to regulate and the assessment of the optimum is independent of the initial solution. Thus, in this paper, we demonstrate how a nature inspired intelligent technique, the Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO) [30] , two simple local search metaheuristics (2-opt and 3-opt) and the Path Relinking strategy [20] can be incorporated in a hybrid scheme, in order to give very good results for the Vehicle Routing Problem with Stochastic Demands (VRPSD). A number of different variants of Particle Swarm Optimization are tested and the one that gives the best performance in a number of tests is used for the whole set of the test instances and for the comparisons with other Evolutionary Optimization techniques. Particle Swarm Optimization algorithms, due to their simplicity in coding and their global and local exploration abilities, are usually applied with remarkable results in continuous optimization problems. In this paper, we focus in the way a PSO algorithm can easily and efficiently be applied in a classic Combinatorial Optimization Problem, like the Vehicle Routing Problem with Stochastic Demands. The main advantage of the application of a PSO algorithm in the VRPSD is that, in contrary to others metaheuristics, there are only two variables for each member of the population that will have to be calculated in each iteration, the position and the velocity. As we would like to increase more the efficiency of the Particle Swarm Optimization we incorporate the local search metaheuristics and the path relinking strategy. The rest of the paper is organized as follows: In Section  2 , the formulation of the Vehicle Routing Problem with Stochastic Demands is given while in Section  3 a literature review is presented. In Section  4 , an analytical description of the proposed algorithm is given. In Section  5 , the computational results of the algorithm are presented and analyzed. Finally, in the last section some general conclusions and the future research are given.