  In this paper a multi-start local search (MSLS) heuristic is proposed for the vehicle routing problem with time windows (VRPTW). In VRPTW the objective is to design least cost routes for a fleet of identical capacitated vehicles to service geographically scattered customers within pre-specified service time windows. The suggested approach is based on a MSLS framework and several new improvement heuristics. A new speedup technique is introduced for the construction heuristics, and the results of the MSLS are post-optimized by a threshold accepting post-processor. Experimental results on 358 benchmark problems from the literature show that the suggested method is highly efficient and competitive. Keywords Routing ; Time windows ; Metaheuristics 1. Introduction In the vehicle routing problem with time windows (VRPTW) the objective is to design least cost routes from a single location (the depot) to a set of geographically scattered points (the customers). The routes must be designed in such a way that each point is visited only once by exactly one vehicle within a given time interval. All routes start and end at the depot, and the total demand of all points on one particular route must not exceed the capacity of the vehicle. Triggered by a vast array of applications and its intrinsic difficulty, the VRPTW has been the subject of intensive research. As solving the NP-hard VRPTW ( Lenstra and Rinnooy Kan, 1981 ) to optimality remains hard, even for problem instances involving just one hundred customers ( Kohl, 1995 ; Larsen, 1999 ; Kohl et al., 1999 ; Cook and Rich, 1999 ), research has focused on heuristic approaches. These VRPTW heuristics can be divided in construction heuristics, improvement heuristics (local searches) and metaheuristics. Construction heuristics build routes sequentially or in parallel. Sequential route construction heuristics build routes one at a time until the route's scarce resources (e.g. capacity, maximum driving distance or time) are depleted, without violating time window constraints. Parallel route construction heuristics create several routes simultaneously. Different variants of construction heuristics can be found in Solomon (1987) , Potvin and Rousseau (1993) , Bramel and Simchi-Levi (1996) , Dullaert and Bräysy (in press) and Ioannou et al. (2001) . Improvement heuristics are used to obtain higher quality solutions by trying modifications to the incumbent solution. For the most successful applications to the VRPTW, see Thompson and Psaraftis (1993) , Potvin and Rousseau (1995) , Russell (1995) , Shaw (1997) , Shaw (1998) , Caseau et al. (1999) and Cordone and Wolfler-Calvo (2001) . Construction and improvement heuristics are discussed in detail in Bräysy and Gendreau (in press a) . Metaheuristics are used to guide construction and improvement heuristics to escape local optima. High-quality results are obtained in Rochat and Taillard (1995) , Taillard et al. (1997) , Gambardella et al. (1999) , Homberger and Gehring (1999) , Liu and Shen (1999) , Bent and Van Hentenryck (in press) , Berger et al. (2003) , Cordeau et al. (2001) , Gehring and Homberger (2001) , Ibaraki et al. (in press) , Li et al. (2003) , Czech and Czarnas (2002) , and Rousseau et al. (2002) . For more details, we refer to the recent survey on metaheuristics by Bräysy and Gendreau (in press a) . Recent literature reviews ( Bräysy and Gendreau, in press a  and  Bräysy and Gendreau, in press b ) reveal that the previously developed heuristics and metaheuristics for the VRPTW show significant variability in performance. The solutions obtained with the traditional construction and improvement heuristics are often far away from optimum, and these methods are also highly dependent on the initial solutions. Better results can be obtained with different metaheuristics, but they often require considerable computational effort, do not scale well, and fail to convincingly provide a single robust and successful technique. Given the practical importance of the VRPTW, further research on this topic is justified. The main contribution of this paper is the development of an efficient and robust multi-start local search (MSLS) heuristic for the VRPTW. We consider the higher efficiency of our approach compared to previous approaches practically relevant, especially in dynamic real-life problems. The suggested method uses a two-phase approach. In the first phase, a fast construction heuristic is used to generate several initial solutions. Then, injection trees (IT), an extension of the well-known ejection chain (EC) approach ( Glover, 1991  and  Glover, 1992 ), are used to reduce the number of routes. In the second phase, two new improvement heuristics, based on CROSS-exchanges ( Taillard et al., 1997 ) are applied for distance minimization. Together, Phase 1 and Phase 2 constitute the MSLS algorithm. The best solution identified by the MSLS is post-optimized using a threshold accepting (TA) post-processor, introduced in Bräysy et al. (in press) . The TA post-processor is powered by the IOPT intra-route improvement heuristic ( Bräysy, 2001 ) and a new and highly efficient inter-route improvement heuristic (GENICROSS), based on the work of Gendreau et al. (1992) and Taillard et al. (1997) . The results on a set of 358 benchmark problems from the studies of Solomon (1987) , Gehring and Homberger (1999) and Russell (1995) illustrate the power of the suggested local search to quickly generate high quality solutions and confirm the merits of the TA post-processor. The resulting hybrid method is shown to be fast, cost-effective and highly competitive. The remainder of this paper is arranged as follows. First, an overview of the solution approach is given. Then, the hybrid sequential insertion heuristic as well as the new improvement heuristics for minimizing the number of routes and travelled distance are described in Section 2 . Section 3 presents a description of the TA post-processor. The empirical investigation is described in Section 4 . Conclusions are drawn in Section 5 .