Password: The Vehicle Routing Problem (VRP) has been thoroughly studied in the last decades. However, the main focus has been on the deterministic version where customer demands are fixed and known in advance. Uncertainty in demand has not received enough consideration. When demands are uncertain, several problems arise in the VRP. For example, there might be unmet customers’ demands, which eventually lead to profit loss. A reliable plan and set of routes, after solving the VRP, can significantly reduce the unmet demand costs, helping in obtaining customer satisfaction. This paper investigates a variant of an uncertain VRP in which the customers’ demands are supposed to be uncertain with unknown distributions. An advanced Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO) algorithm has been proposed to solve such a VRP. A novel decoding scheme has also been developed to increase the PSO efficiency. Comprehensive computational experiments, along with comparisons with other existing algorithms, have been provided to validate the proposed algorithms. ► An improved PSO approach is applied to solve the CVRP having stochastic demands. ► We have developed a novel decoding method for interpreting PSO solutions for the VRP. ► Our proposed method has less robustness cost than the exact robust algorithm. ► In all cases, the proposed method has produced a feasible solution. Keywords Vehicle routing problem ; Particle swarm optimization ; Uncertain demand Significant efforts have been made to solve realistic problems in supply chain management and logistics ( Clark and Scarf, 1960  and  Graves et al., 1993 ; among many others). The complexity of the resulting mathematical formulations is of primary concern in the real world supply chains problems. In fact, the formulations are too large and the number of binary variables goes over several hundreds or even thousands for small case studies. Therefore, in most cases, the scientific community is unable to find optimal solutions in a reasonable amount of time. Furthermore, the mathematical optimum is of no great concern because it depends on the input data that, most of the time, is merely approximated. This motivates the search for near optimal solutions by means of heuristic approaches. Advanced metaheuristic methods such as Genetic Algorithms, Ant Colony Optimization, Neural Networks, Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO) and many others have been proposed. Some authors like Yang, Wang, and Jiao (2004) have stated the properties of PSO which defend ease of implementation and tuning of parameters. Some other researchers ( Chen et al., 2006  and  Tao et al., 2008 ) claim that PSO can find solutions with relatively better qualities when hybridized with local search. Kennedy and Eberhart (1995) are believed to be the pioneers of the PSO concept which is a kind of swarm intelligent algorithm based on socio-psychological principles. It has been applied to several routing problems with success in other occasions. For example, Ai and Kachitvichyanukul (2009a) developed a PSO for a VRP with simultaneous pick-up and delivery, and compared the performance of their method with other existing metaheuristics using some benchmark problems. They used a similar PSO for the capacitated VRP (CVRP) and reported some promising results ( Ai & Kachitvichyanukul, 2009b ). PSO has also been applied to other logistics problems ( Ai and Kachitvichyanukul, 2008  and  Ai and Kachitvichyanukul, 2009c ). Önüt, Tuzkaya, and Doğaç (2008) , for instance, used PSO for a multiple-level warehouse layout design problem. Shi, Liang, Lee, Lu, and Wang (2007) successfully applied PSO for the Traveling Salesman Problem (TSP). One of the main assumptions in the general VRP is that all the input parameters and data are assumed to be deterministic ( Bertsimas, 1992 ). Therefore, a small perturbation on the input data could result in some impractical and/or suboptimal solutions. Stochastic VRP (SVRP) was first studied by Tillman (1969) who presented a savings approach for the multi-depot SVRP. Jaillet and Odoni (1988) discussed some heuristics used to solve the probabilistic VRP. Dror (1993) modeled SVRP by a Markov Decision Process. Golden and Yee (1979) introduced a chance constrained programming model for VRPs with stochastic demands and obtained some analytic results. Stewart and Golden (1983) extended the work of Golden and Yee (1979) and presented some computational results. Gendreau, Laporte, and Seguin (1995) used an exact algorithm to solve the SVRP. Later, Gendreau, Laporte, and Seguin (1996a) applied Tabu search as a metaheuristic for the SVRP. Sungur, Ordóñez, and Dessouky (2008) used an exact algorithm to achieve robust solutions for the SVRP. Shen, Ordóñez, and Dessouky (2009) surveyed some real large scale cases in medical supply chains with uncertain demands or tight deadlines. The main contributions of this paper are presenting a new decoding algorithm and applying PSO to solve the CVRP. We have also studied a special form of CVRP where demand is not certain. Furthermore, we have assumed that the demand distribution is unknown. Since solving the presented problem to optimality is not easy, we have used a variant of PSO to determine near optimal solutions. In order to demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed PSO, results have been compared with those of Ai and Kachitvichyanukul (2009b) which we consider a reference since these authors also proposed a PSO for similar problems. The paper has been organized as follows: introduction in Section 1 ; problem definition in Section 2 ; the proposed PSO algorithm for the regular deterministic CVRP, along with the decoding procedure (M1 algorithm) and a comparison with other algorithms, in Section 3 ; uncertainty (definition, development of a method and comparison of performance) in Section 4 ; and finally, conclusions in Section 5 . 2. Problem definition VRP is a combinatorial optimization problem intended to serve a number of customers with a fleet of vehicles. Formulated initially by Dantzig and Ramser (1959) , the VRP is a serious problem in the fields of transportation, distribution and logistics. In a typical VRP we have a depot, where different vehicles are to deliver goods to various customers and the primary objective is to minimize the total transportation cost or distance. Laporte (1992) defines the classical VRP as follows: Let G  = ( V ,  A ) be a graph where V  = {1, … ,  n } is a set of vertexes representing clients ( V (1) is the single depot) with known and deterministic demands d i and A is the set of arcs that interconnect all clients. The cost or weight of each arc between nodes i and j is denoted by c ij . In addition, there are m vehicles available. The objective is to minimize the total travelled distance by these vehicles, subject to: (i) each client in V ⧹{1} is visited only once; (ii) each vehicle route starts and ends at the depot. Considering uncertainty in the VRP results in more real life-like problems which should be solved in such a way that the solutions would be robust against perturbations caused by the uncertainty. The findings in the robust optimization field are noticeable ( Ben-Tal and Nemirovski, 1998 , Ben-Tal and Nemirovski, 1999  and  El Ghaoui et al., 1998 ). El Ghaoui (2003) illustrates the robust solution by a conceptual example which is depicted in Fig. 1 . The bold quadrangle is the feasible area for a typical problem with deterministic parameters. When the parameters are perturbed, the intersection of feasible areas is the robust area shown by the black boundary. Since it is impossible to model this area analytically, a counterpart is replaced as the robust feasible area. This way, all the solutions to the existing models in this counterpart are robust, but their best solutions are a little worse than the robust optimum solution. So in the robust optimization, there is a trade-off between robustness and quality of the solution. Despite quality degradation, in some cases it is priceless to get a robust solution. Ben-Tal and Nemirovski (1999) proposed two methods which formulate a mathematical robust counterpart.