Password: This paper presents a new sweep-based heuristic for the fleet size and mix vehicle routing problem. This problem involves two kinds of decisions: the selection of a mix of vehicles among the available vehicle types and the routing of the selected fleet. The proposed algorithm first generates a large number of routes that are serviced by one or two vehicles. The selection of routes and vehicles to be used is then made by solving to optimality, in polynomial time, a set-partitioning problem having a special structure. Results on a set of benchmark test problems show that the proposed heuristic produces excellent solutions in short computing times. Having a fast but good solution method is needed for transportation companies that rent a significant part of their fleet and consequently can take advantage of frequent changes in fleet composition. Finally, the proposed heuristic produced new best-known solutions for three of the test problems; these solutions are reported. Keywords Vehicle routing problem ; Fleet selection ; Sweep-based heuristic 1. Introduction The fleet size and mix vehicle routing problem (FSMVRP), also called vehicle fleet mix problem or fleet size and composition vehicle routing problem ( Taillard, 1999 ), involves two basic decisions: the composition of a heterogeneous vehicle fleet and the routing of this fleet. The vehicle fleet can be composed of vehicles having different capacities as well as different fixed and variable costs. The objective is to minimize the total cost, which is composed of vehicle fixed utilization costs and of variable traveling costs. This objective can be achieved by finding the optimal mix of vehicles and by determining the associated routes while satisfying the problem constraints. Mathematically, the problem may be defined as follows. Let G =( V , A ) be a graph where V ={ v 0 ,…, v n } is the vertex set and is the arc set. Vertex v 0 represents a depot where M different vehicle types are based. Each vertex v i ∈ V ⧹{ v 0 } corresponds to a customer and is associated with a non-negative demand q i and a service time s i . In the version of the problem under consideration, all arcs are undirected, i.e. they are edges . Each edge ( v i , v j ) is associated with a non-negative cost, c ij , representing its travel cost and a non-negative time, t ij , representing its travel time . In addition, F k , Q k and T k represent, respectively, the vehicle fixed cost , the vehicle capacity and the maximum travel time for vehicle type k =1,…, M . We assume that F k 1 < F k 2 implies Q k 1 < Q k 2 , that vehicle types are numbered in ascending order of F k and that we can use any number of vehicles of type k . The FSMVRP is to determine a mix of vehicles as well as their routes such that: (1) routes start and end at the depot; (2) each customer is visited exactly once; (3) the total demand of a route does not exceed the capacity of the vehicle type used; (4) the total duration of each route (including travel and service times) does not exceed the maximal traveling time T k of the vehicle type used; and (5) the sum of fixed and variable costs are minimized. In this paper we propose a new sweep-based heuristic that has produced highly competitive results on a set of benchmark problems. This composite heuristic can solve both Euclidean planar problems and non-Euclidean problems as well, which is not the case of some of the recently published heuristics. In addition, the proposed heuristic produces better results than comparable composite heuristics and results very close to those obtained by the best-published, Tabu-based heuristic algorithms. The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. In Section 2 , we review the main algorithms for the FSMVRP. Our heuristic is described in Section 3 , followed by our computational results in Section 4 and conclusions in Section 5 . 2. Literature review The FSMVRP is clearly NP-hard as it reduces to the vehicle routing problem (VRP) when M =1. This latter problem has generated a considerable amount of research over the last three decades (see the review by Laporte (1992b) and the bibliography by Laporte and Osman (1995) ). The best existing optimal algorithms for the VRP appear to be those of Cornuéjols and Harche (1993) , and of Hadjiconstantinou et al. (1995) , and can rarely solve problem instances involving more than 50 customers. The best heuristics for the VRP appear to be the Tabu search-based algorithms of Taillard (1993) , Osman (1993) and Gendreau et al. (1994) , and the improved petal heuristic of Renaud et al. (1996a) . In spite of its practical importance, the FSMVRP has attracted less research effort. Gould (1969) developed a linear program for a problem version where only round trips between the depot and each customer are considered. Woods and Harris (1979) also addressed this problem by using a simulation approach. Etezadi and Beasley (1983) presented a formulation where vehicles may visit many customers. Golden et al. (1984) presented a mathematical formulation of the FSMVRP. Because of its complexity, the research effort dealing with the FSMVRP has focused on heuristics. One of the most important contributions to this field is that of Golden et al. (1984) who suggested five adaptations of Clarke and Wright's (1964) savings algorithm. The first one, denoted CW, is a straightforward adaptation of the original algorithm to the FSMVRP. The second, called combined savings , or CS, extends the concept of savings to include fixed vehicle costs. Three variants of the CS approach were also developed. In the optimistic opportunity savings algorithm, OOS, the opportunity savings associated with an additional vehicle is defined as the cost of the smallest vehicle that can service the entire unused capacity of the new vehicle. The fourth method presented, called the realistic opportunity savings heuristic, ROS, suggests that opportunity savings encourage the use of larger vehicles when it seems profitable to do so. Thus, the opportunity savings should not be included in the savings formula unless combining two sub-tours requires the use of a larger vehicle. Finally, the last algorithm, called ROS- γ , is a variant of the ROS algorithm where γ is used as a shape parameter in the savings calculation. In their paper, Golden et al. also present some two-step procedures. First, a good method is used to generate a traveling salesman tour that visits all customers (for such methods see Laporte (1992a) ). This tour is then partitioned into sub-tours, each satisfying the problem constraints. The first of these algorithms, called the single partition giant tour algorithm (SGT), starts with a tour that begins at the central depot, visits each customer exactly once and then returns to the depot. The second algorithm is called multiple partition giant tour algorithm (MGT). In this version, the depot is not included in the initial tour, which allows more flexibility and produces a more powerful partitioning. Finally, other variants attempt improving the giant tour solution by using some traveling salesman improvement procedures. The 2-opt of Lin (1965) and the Or-opt of Or (1976) were used. Results presented on a set of 20 test problems show that the ROS- γ is the best savings based heuristic while the (MGT + Or-opt) 5 procedure, a combination of the MGT and the Or-opt procedures, is the best overall combination. Gheysens et al., 1984  and  Gheysens et al., 1986 present two heuristics for the FSMVRP. The first one incorporates the vehicle capacity constraints into the objective function together with the fixed vehicle costs and the variable traveling costs, by using penalty multipliers. The resulting problem is then solved by using the (MGT + Or-opt) algorithm for different values of the penalty multipliers. The second heuristic is a two-stage algorithm. In the first stage, a lower bounding procedure is used to determine a vehicle mix, i.e., the number of vehicles of each type to be used. In the second stage, the generalized assignment procedure of Fisher and Jaikumar (1981) is used to solve the remaining routing problem for the obtained vehicles. Other saving based algorithms have been proposed by Desrochers and Verhoog (1991) . Their matching based savings algorithm (MBSA) is based on successive route fusions where the best fusion is selected by solving a weighted matching problem. A number of variants of this algorithm are proposed where each variant uses a different savings formula. Salhi and Rand (1993) presented a route perturbation (RPERT) procedure that extends the previous work of Salhi and Rand (1987) for the VRP. The algorithm applies some perturbation procedures to the routes in order to improve the vehicle use of the whole fleet. Their solutions of the benchmark problems of Golden et al. (1984) show that Salhi and Rand's method performs slightly better than (MGT + Or-opt) 5 . Salhi et al. (1992) showed how to extend existing heuristics to integrate variable traveling costs in the decision process. Osman and Salhi (1996) presented a modified version of RPERT, called MRPERT, allowing the search process to restart several times producing several solutions. The best solution is then retained.