  Transportation is an important component of supply chain competitiveness since it plays a major role in the inbound, inter-facility, and outbound logistics. In this context, assigning and scheduling vehicle routes is a crucial management problem. In this paper, a vehicle routing problem with dynamic travel times due to potential traffic congestion is considered. The approach developed introduces mainly the traffic congestion component based on queueing theory. This is an innovative modeling scheme to capture travel times. The queueing approach is compared with other approaches and its potential benefits are described and quantified. Moreover, the optimization of the starting times of a route at the distribution center is evaluated. Finally, the trade-off between solution quality and calculation time is discussed. Numerous test instances are used, both to illustrate the appropriateness of the approach as well as to show that time-independent solutions are often unrealistic within a congested traffic environment, which is usually the case on European road networks. Keywords Vehicle scheduling ; Dynamic travel times ; Queueing 1. Introduction Routing problems have been largely studied due to its interest in different applications in logistics and supply chain management. Not surprisingly, transportation is an important component of supply chain competitiveness since it plays a major role in the inbound, inter-facility, and outbound logistics. Transportation costs represent approximately 40–50% of total logistics costs and 4–10% of the product selling price for many companies [11] . As such, transportation decisions directly affect the total logistic costs. The passage of the transportation deregulation acts in the 1980s in the USA and in the 1990s in the EU drastically changed the business climate, within which the transportation managers operate. Within the EU, the competition is becoming intense between transporters since they often operate at transnational levels and must provide higher levels of service with lower costs to meet the various needs of customers. In this context, assigning, scheduling and routing the fleet of a transportation company is a crucial management issue. From an operations research point of view, these operational decisions can be formulated as a vehicle routing problem. In general, the vehicle routing problem (VRP) aims to construct a set of shortest routes for a fleet of vehicles of fixed capacity. Each customer is visited exactly once by one vehicle which delivers the demanded amount of goods to the customer. Each route has to start and end at a depot, and the sum of the demands of the visited customers on a route must not exceed the capacity of the vehicle. In this paper, it is assumed that there is only one depot from where the routes start and end for each vehicle, a homogeneous fleet consisting of several vehicles with fixed capacity, while each customer’s demand is pre-determined i.e. static and deterministic demand. Formally, the vehicle routing problem can be represented by a complete weighted graph G=(V,A,c) G = ( V , A , c ) where V={0,1…n} V = { 0 , 1 … n } is a set of vertices and A  = {( i ,  j ) :  i <> j } is a set of arcs. The vertex 0 denotes the depot; the other vertices of V represent cities or customers. The non-negative weights c ij , which are associated with each arc ( i ,  j ), represent the cost (distance, travel time or travel cost) between i and j . For each customer, a non-negative demand qd i and a non-negative service time d i is given ( d 0  = 0 and qd 0  = 0). The objective is then to find the minimum cost vehicle routes where the following conditions hold: every customer is visited exactly once by exactly one vehicle; all vehicle routes start and end at the single depot; every vehicle route has a total demand not exceeding the vehicle capacity Q ; every vehicle route has a total route length not exceeding the maximum length L [28] . If it seems reasonable to assume that the service time at each vertex (customer) is known in advance, it is definitely not the case for the travel time between two vertices. In fact, the travel times are the result of a stochastic process related to traffic congestion. Clearly, travel times depend greatly on the different number of vehicles occupying the road and on their speeds. In this paper, the VRP problem considered deals with dynamic travel times. In this case, the non-negative weights c ij p associated with each arc ( i ,  j ), represent the travel time between i and j starting in time zone p . The main contributions are the following: (i) Time-dependent travel times (modeled using a queueing approach) are introduced in the routing problem. More specifically, the stochastic and dynamic nature of travel times is captured using queueing theory applied to traffic flows. A major advantage of using these queueing models is that the real-life physical characteristics of the road network can be mapped immediately onto the parameters of the queueing model. Moreover, the inherent stochasticity of travel times can explicitly be taken into account via the analytical queueing models. We show that our approach is superior compared to the time-independent situation and has significant gains compared to other time-dependent modeling approaches. On top of this, in most real-life cases, speed are not available or are only available for a small part of the road network. Flows, which are much easier to measure and estimate, are however more available (e.g. in The Netherlands the expected loads of the road network are reported [40] ). The queueing approach offers in this case a valuable model for translating flows into speeds. (ii) The effect of the time discretization on both the solution quality and the calculation times is evaluated in great detail. Our approach allows for any number of time zones in which the time is discretized. We compare our approach with 144 time zones of each 10 minutes with other approaches found in the literature (i.e. Ichoua [23] with 3 zones; no zones or time-independent). In combination with this time granularity, we also analyze the effect of different road types on the solution quality obtained. We found that a higher number of time zones, improves the solution quality. Moreover, this effect is even greater for different road types. (iii) In a dynamic environment, a truck can decide to leave earlier or later to avoid periods of (anticipated) high congestion. The value of such a decision is quantified in this paper. We found that optimizing the starting times for a solution has a significant effect on the obtained solution quality. (iv) Finally, the basic trade-off between solution quality and calculation time is evaluated in detail. Based on the results, we found that the extra calculation time for large datasets is significant but is certainly worthwhile if one takes into account the improvement in solution quality. The analysis done gives important insights to a decision maker to decide whether he wants to invest the extra needed calculation time. This paper is organized as follows: in Section 2 , the literature background on our variant of the vehicle routing problems is briefly presented. Section 3 is devoted to the modeling and determination of the travel time distribution. Section 4 addresses the experimental design, the input data and the solution approach used to cope with the dynamic vehicle routing problem. In Section 5 , computational results are presented based on some standard datasets. The managerial implications are discussed in more detail in Section 6 . Finally, conclusions are presented in Section 7 . 2. Literature review Despite numerous publications dealing with efficient scheduling methods for vehicle routing, very few addressed the inherent stochastic nature of this problem. Most research in this area has focused on dynamic routing and scheduling that considers the variation in customer demands. However, there has been limited research on routing and scheduling with congestion dependent travel times. The motivation for using time-dependent models is that the vehicles in the routing problem operate in a traffic network, which will be congested depending upon the time of the day. If it seems reasonable to assume that the service time at each vertex (customer) is known in advance, it is definitely not the case for the travel time between two vertices. In fact, the travel times are the result of a stochastic process related to traffic congestion. Clearly, travel times depend greatly on the different number of vehicles occupying the road and on their speeds.