Password: This study considers the application of a genetic algorithm (GA) to the basic vehicle routing problem (VRP), in which customers of known demand are supplied from a single depot. Vehicles are subject to a weight limit and, in some cases, to a limit on the distance travelled. Only one vehicle is allowed to supply each customer. The best known results for benchmark VRPs have been obtained using tabu search or simulated annealing. GAs have seen widespread application to various combinatorial optimisation problems, including certain types of vehicle routing problem, especially where time windows are included. However, they do not appear to have made a great impact so far on the VRP as described here. In this paper, computational results are given for the pure GA which is put forward. Further results are given using a hybrid of this GA with neighbourhood search methods, showing that this approach is competitive with tabu search and simulated annealing in terms of solution time and quality. Scope and purpose The basic vehicle routing problem (VRP) consists of a number of customers, each requiring a specified weight of goods to be delivered. Vehicles despatched from a single depot must deliver the goods required, then return to the depot. Each vehicle can carry a limited weight and may also be restricted in the total distance it can travel. Only one vehicle is allowed to visit each customer. The problem is to find a set of delivery routes satisfying these requirements and giving minimal total cost. In practice, this is often taken to be equivalent to minimising the total distance travelled, or to minimising the number of vehicles used and then minimising total distance for this number of vehicles. Most published research for the VRP has focused on the development of heuristics. Although the development of modern heuristics has led to considerable progress, the quest for improved performance continues. Genetic algorithms (GAs) have been used to tackle many combinatorial problems, including certain types of vehicle routing problem. However, it appears that GAs have not yet made a great impact on the VRP as described here. This paper describes a GA that we have developed for the VRP, showing that this approach can be competitive with other modern heuristic techniques in terms of solution time and quality. Keywords Routing ; Heuristics ; Genetic algorithms 1. Introduction The basic vehicle routing problem (VRP) consists of a large number of customers, each with a known demand level, which must be supplied from a single depot. Delivery routes for vehicles are required, starting and finishing at the depot, so that all customer demands are satisfied and each customer is visited by just one vehicle. Vehicle capacities are given and, frequently, there is a maximum distance that each vehicle can travel. In the latter case, a drop allowance may be associated with each customer, which is added to the total distance travelled by the vehicle to which the customer is assigned. Thus, a vehicle which visits many customers will not be able to travel as far as a vehicle that visits relatively few customers. Possible objectives may be to find a set of routes which minimises the total distance travelled, or which minimises the number of vehicles required and the total distance travelled with this number of vehicles. Various mathematical formulations of the VRP are given by, for example, Laporte [1] . Problems of realistic size are tackled using heuristics. There have been many contributions to the subject, including various extensions to the basic problem described above. Laporte [1] gives a survey, and an extensive bibliography has been compiled by Laporte and Osman [2] . The tabu search implementations of Taillard [3] and Rochat and Taillard [4] have obtained the best known results to benchmark VRPs. Various authors have reported similar results, obtained using tabu search [5] , [6] , [7]  and  [8] , or simulated annealing [5]  and  [9] . However, it has been observed by Renaud et al. [10] that such heuristics require substantial computing times and several parameter settings. Ant colony optimisation is another recent approach to difficult combinatorial problems with a number of successful applications reported, including the VRP [11]  and  [12] . With a 2-optimal heuristic incorporated to improve individual routes produced by artificial ants, this approach also has given results which are only slightly inferior to those from tabu search. Genetic algorithms (GAs) have seen widespread use amongst modern metaheuristics, and several applications to VRPs incorporating time windows have been reported [13] , [14] , [15] , [16] , [17] , [18] , [19]  and  [20] . Applications of GAs have also been reported for the VRP with backhauls [21] , for a multi-depot routing problem [22] , and a school bus routing problem [23] . A hybrid approach to vehicle routing using neural networks and GAs has also been reported [24] . However, GAs do not appear to have made a great impact so far on the basic VRP. The aim of this study is to put forward a conceptually straightforward GA for the basic VRP, which is competitive with other modern heuristics in terms of computing time and solution quality. A hybrid heuristic which incorporates neighbourhood search into our GA is also considered. Computational results are given for benchmark problems, alongside some of the well-known results obtained using tabu search and simulated annealing. 2. Basis for a genetic algorithm The principles of GAs are well known. A population of solutions is maintained and a reproductive process allows parent solutions to be selected from the population. Offspring solutions are produced which exhibit some of the characteristics of each parent. The fitness of each solution can be related to the objective function value, in this case the total distance travelled, and the level of any constraint violation. Analogous to biological processes, offspring with relatively good fitness levels are more likely to survive and reproduce, with the expectation that fitness levels throughout the population will improve as it evolves. More details are given by Reeves [25] , for example. The starting point for any GA is in the representation of each solution or population member. Typically, this will be in the form of a string or chromosome. Individual positions within each chromosome are referred to as genes. Although binary strings have been favoured by many GA researchers, some successful implementations use non-binary representations. For example, Chu and Beasley [26] use a non-binary representation in their approach to the generalised assignment problem (GAP), which requires jobs to be assigned to agents at minimum total cost, subject to resource limitations for each agent. In their representation, each chromosome consists of a string of decimal numbers, in index order of the jobs, specifying the agent number to which each job is assigned. Structural similarities between the VRP and the GAP have been noted and successfully exploited in the past; for example, by Fisher and Jaikumar [27] , and by Baker and Sheasby [28] . Our VRP representation is similar to Chu and Beasley's GAP representation and specifies, for each customer, the vehicle number to which it is assigned. Thus, given n customers and m vehicles, the chromosome for an individual solution has the form of a string of length n , with each gene value in the range [1, m ]. Unlike some representations which have been used for the VRP, this does not specify explicitly the exact route which each vehicle should follow. However, with the assignment of customers to vehicles known, individual routes are implicitly specified, including the total distance travelled and the levels of any constraint violations. The solution of a travelling salesman problem (TSP) is required for each vehicle in order to make the transition from an implicit to an explicit solution, enabling a fitness value to be associated with each population member. Two steps are taken to maintain as much structure as possible. Firstly, the customers are sorted and numbered so that consecutive customers are likely to be served by the same vehicle. For problems where the customers are randomly distributed around the depot, they are sorted according to increasing order of polar angle. When customers are located in clusters rather than randomly, they are sorted according to a nearest neighbour solution to the TSP, starting from the depot and visiting all customers. Secondly, we attempt to number the vehicles so that any vehicle, i , operates in approximately the same region for all population members. Then, we apply the usual reproductive processes for GAs to the population, generating new solutions that share certain route structures with their parents. These aspects are described in more detail in the following sections. Since a similar approach has proved successful with the GAP, we could reasonably expect such a GA to produce good solutions to the VRP. 3. Generating the initial population Experiments were carried out with the initial population generated randomly, with an initial population of structured solutions, and with a mixed population containing both random and structured solutions. The expectation is that an initial population of reasonably structured solutions will evolve to high-quality solutions in a relatively small number of generations of the GA. However, a possible drawback is that such a population will lack the diversity needed to obtain near-optimal solutions, comparable in quality to those obtained using tabu search.