  The single vehicle routing problem with pickups and deliveries (SVRPPD) is defined on a graph in which pickup and delivery demands are associated with the customer vertices. The problem consists of designing a least cost route for a vehicle of capacity Q . Each customer is allowed to be visited once for a combined pickup and delivery, or twice if these two operations are performed separately. This article proposes a mixed integer linear programming model for the SVRPPD. It introduces the concept of general solution which encompasses known solution shapes such as Hamiltonian, double-path and lasso. Classical construction and improvement heuristics, as well as a tabu search heuristic, are developed and tested over several instances. Computational results show that the best solutions generated by the heuristics are frequently non-Hamiltonian and may contain up to two customers visited twice. Keywords Combinatorial optimization ; Heuristics ; Metaheuristics ; Tabu search 1. Introduction The single vehicle routing problem with pickups and deliveries (SVRPPD) is defined as follows. Let G  = ( V ,  A ) be a graph where V  = {0, 1, … ,  n } is the vertex set, A  = {( i ,  j ):  i ,  j  ∈  V ,  i  ≠  j } is the arc set, and C  = ( c ij ) ( n +1)×( n +1) is a cost matrix defined on G . Vertex 0 is a depot at which is based a vehicle of capacity Q , while the remaining vertices represent customers. With each vertex i  ∈  V ⧹{0} are associated a non-negative pickup demand p i and a non-negative delivery demand d i , with p i  +  d i  > 0. It is assumed that ∑ i = 1 n p i ⩽ Q and ∑ i = 1 n d i ⩽ Q , for otherwise the problem is infeasible. In practice the products to be picked up are different from those delivered. The SVRPPD consists of designing a minimum cost vehicle route starting and ending at the depot, making all pickups and deliveries, and such that the vehicle load never exceeds Q along the route. We allow each customer to be visited once or twice . In the first case, both the pickup and the delivery are performed during the same visit. In the second case, one visit is used for the delivery and the other one for the pickup. However, neither the delivery demand nor the pickup demand can be split between two visits. The SVRPPD is NP-hard since it reduces to the traveling salesman problem (TSP) whenever p i  ⩾  d i for all i  ∈  V ⧹{0} or d i  ⩾  p i for all i  ∈  V ⧹{0}. The SVRPPD arises naturally in the planning of reverse logistics operations involving the delivery of full bottles and the collection of empty ones ( Dethloff, 2001 , Tang and Galvão, 2002  and  Tang and Galvão, 2006 ). Real-life applications encountered in the beverage industry are described by Halskau and Løkketangen, 1998  and  Privé et al., in press . Min (1989) has investigated an application related to the public library distribution system, while Mosheiov (1994) provides yet another application arising in the transportation of children in a community program. Applications encountered in mail transportation are described by Wasner and Zäphel (2004) . There exists an extensive literature on routing problems with pickups and deliveries, but more often than not these are “many-to-many” problems involving deliveries between customer locations. Such problems, which are beyond the scope of the present study, are reviewed in Cordeau et al. (in press) . Our problem combines “one-to-many” and “many-to-one” features: all customer deliveries originate at a unique depot, and all collections are destined to the depot. The vehicle routing problem with pickups and deliveries (VRPPD) in which pickups and deliveries are made with a fleet of m vehicles based at the depot generalizes our problem. As far as we are aware, most published VRPPD models (see, e.g., Angelelli and Mansini, 2002  and  Nagy and Salhi, 2005 ) assume that each customer is visited only once, except for Nagy and Salhi (1998) who have developed a large scale model allowing two visits per customer for a more general many-to-many pickup and delivery location-routing problem. Some heuristics ( Gribkovskaia et al., 2001 , Hoff and Løkketangen, in press  and  Nagy and Salhi, 2005 ) allow two visits to the same customer. As suggested by Halskau and Gribkovskaia (2002) , it is preferable to design models and heuristics capable of constructing general solutions in the sense that some customers may be visited once while others may be visited twice, and no a priori shape is imposed on the solution. Most known algorithms for the SVRPPD and the VRPPD have been developed in contexts where the solution has a predefined shape. All are heuristics that include a construction phase followed by an improvement phase which moves customers between different routes or operates on a single route at a time. Typical movements include customer relocations in different positions, 2-opt and 3-opt moves ( Min, 1989 , Halse, 1992 , Mosheiov, 1994 , Salhi and Nagy, 1999 , Gendreau et al., 1999 , Dethloff, 2001 , Dethloff, 2002 , Tang and Galvão, 2002 , Tang and Galvão, 2006  and  Nagy and Salhi, 2005 ). Nagy and Salhi (2005) also consider the possibility of splitting customer visits into two, or of merging the two visits during the solution process, but this flexibility is not allowed by their problem formulation. Tabu search has been applied by Gendreau et al., 1999  and  Hoff and Løkketangen, in press . Our aim is to provide new construction and improvement heuristics, including tabu search, yielding general solutions to the SVRPPD. The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. In Section 2 , we present a mathematical model for the SVRPPD, followed by some properties of SVRPPD solutions in Section 3 . Classical construction and improvement heuristics are described in Section 4 . A tabu search heuristic is presented in Section 5 , followed by computational results in Section 6 and by conclusions in Section 7 .