Password: In this paper a combination of the two most important problems in distribution logistics is considered, known as the two-dimensional loading vehicle routing problem. This problem combines the loading of the freight into the vehicles, and the successive routing of the vehicles along the road network, with the aim of satisfying the demands of the customers. The problem is solved by different heuristics for the loading part, and by an ant colony optimization (ACO) algorithm for the overall optimization. The excellent behavior of the algorithm is proven through extensive computational results. The contribution of the paper is threefold: first, on small-size instances the proposed algorithm reaches a high number of proven optimal solutions, while on large-size instances it clearly outperforms previous heuristics from the literature. Second, due to its flexibility in handling different loading constraints, including items rotation and rear loading, it allows us to draw qualitative conclusions of practical interest in transportation, such as evaluating the potential savings by permitting more flexible loading configurations. Third, in ACO a combination of different heuristic information usually did not turn out to be successful in the past. Our approach provides an example where an ACO algorithm successfully combines two completely different heuristic measures (with respect to loading and routing) within one pheromone matrix. Keywords Vehicle routing ; Ant colony optimization ; Two-dimensional packing 1. Introduction Two of the most important problems in distribution logistics concern the loading of the freight into the vehicles, and the successive routing of the vehicles along the road network, with the aim of satisfying the demands of the customers. In the field of combinatorial optimization, loading and routing problems have been studied intensively but separately. Only in recent years some attention has been devoted to their combined optimization. The obvious advantage is that, by considering the information on the freight to be loaded, one can construct more appropriate routes for the vehicles. This comes at a price since the combinatorial difficulty of the problem increases considerably. In this paper we address a particular combination of two-dimensional loading and vehicle routing, defined as the two-dimensional loading capacitated vehicle routing problem (2L-CVRP, see Iori [1]  and  [2] ). In the 2L-CVRP customers demand sets of rectangular weighted items, while vehicles have a weight capacity and a rectangular two-dimensional loading surface. The aim is to load the items into the vehicles and deliver them to the customers, through a road network, with minimum total cost. The problem is of interest in the transportation of three-dimensional box-shaped items that cannot be stacked one on top of each other, because of their fragility, weight or large dimensions. This happens, for example, when the transported items are kitchen appliances or large mechanical components. The 2L-CVRP generalizes the well known capacitated vehicle routing problem (CVRP), in which the demand of each customer is only represented by a positive integer, representing weight or volume. We propose an effective heuristic based on Ant Colony Optimization (ACO). Starting point is the savings based ACO algorithm for the CVRP (see [3]  and  [4] ), which is modified and extended by incorporating loading heuristics. The algorithm searches the space of routing solutions, while checking the feasibility of the two-dimensional loading of each route by means of lower bounds, fast heuristics and a truncated branch-and-bound. Our aim is to provide good solutions to large-size instances, leading to an algorithm of practical use in transportation. The rest of the paper is organized as follows. In Section 2 we describe the 2L-CVRP and discuss possible loading configurations. In Section 3 we briefly review the previous literature on combined loading and routing problems. In Section 4 we present the algorithms used for the loading subproblem, while in Section 5 we give the implementation of the ACO for the combined loading and routing problem. In Section 6 we present extensive computational results for instances from the literature, showing a very good performance of our algorithm. 2. Problem description