  This paper describes an exact algorithm for solving a problem where the same vehicle performs several routes to serve a set of customers with time windows. The motivation comes from the home delivery of perishable goods, where vehicle routes are short and must be combined to form a working day. A method based on an elementary shortest path algorithm with resource constraints is proposed to solve this problem. The method is divided into two phases: in the first phase, all non-dominated feasible routes are generated; in the second phase, some routes are selected and sequenced to form the vehicle workday. Computational results are reported on Euclidean problems derived from benchmark instances of the classical vehicle routing problem with time windows. Keywords Transportation ; Routing ; Single vehicle ; Time windows ; Multiple uses ; Elementary shortest paths 1. Introduction In this work, we consider a variant of the vehicle routing problem with time windows (VRPTW) where the same vehicle can perform several routes during its workday. Surprisingly, this problem has received little attention in the literature in spite of its importance in practice. For example, in the home delivery of perishable goods, like food, routes are of short duration and must be combined to form a complete workday. We believe that this type of problem will become increasingly important in the future with the advent of electronic services, like e-groceries, where customers can order goods through the internet and have them delivered at home. The vehicle routing problem with multiple uses of vehicles, but no time windows, has been addressed through heuristic means in [7]  and  [14] . In [14] , different solutions to the classical vehicle routing problem are generated using a tabu search heuristic. The routes obtained are then combined to produce workdays for the vehicles by solving a bin packing problem, an idea previously introduced in [7] . A recent work in [3] reports about insertion heuristics that can efficiently handle different types of constraints including time windows and multiple uses of vehicles. In [2] , the authors introduce the home delivery problem, which is more closely related to real-world applications. Here, a probability of occurrence and a revenue are associated with each potential customer. When a new request occurs, a decision to accept or reject it must be taken in real-time, and a time window for service is determined. Although vehicle routes are generated and used to decide about the acceptance or rejection of a particular request, the “real” routes are executed later. Logistics and socio-economic considerations about different types of home delivery problems, with a particular emphasis on electronic groceries, can also be found in [8] , [9] , [10] , [11]  and  [15] . In this paper, an exact algorithm for solving a single-vehicle routing problem with time windows and multiple routes is reported. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first time that an exact algorithm is devised for this kind of problem. The outline of the paper is as follows. In Section 2 , a mathematical programming formulation is proposed. The problem-solving approach, based on an elementary shortest path algorithm with resource constraints, is then presented in Section 3 . Computational results on problem instances derived from Solomon’s VRPTW testbed [13] are reported in Section 4 . Finally, concluding remarks follow in Section 5 . 2. Problem formulation