Password: The classical vehicle routing problem involves designing a set of routes for a fleet of vehicles based at one central depot that is required to serve a number of geographically dispersed customers, while minimizing the total travel distance or the total distribution cost. Each route originates and terminates at the central depot and customers demands are known. In many practical distribution problems, besides a hard time window associated with each customer, defining a time interval in which the customer should be served, managers establish multiple objectives to be considered, like avoiding underutilization of labor and vehicle capacity, while meeting the preferences of customers regarding the time of the day in which they would like to be served (soft time windows). This work investigates the use of goal programming to model these problems. To solve the model, an enumeration-followed-by-optimization approach is proposed which first computes feasible routes and then selects the set of best ones. Computational results show that this approach is adequate for medium-sized delivery problems. Keywords Vehicle routing ; Logistics ; Time windows ; Goal programming ; Enumeration 1. Introduction In such a competitive world as the current one, it is evident that companies should make operational and strategic decisions in order to optimize and manage the processes involved in their supply chains more efficiently. Amongst them, the delivery of commodities at low cost, with high quality service. This guarantees not only a good service to customers but also savings in warehousing and distribution costs. The problem of physical distribution of goods to customer locations is specially relevant since it accounts for a large proportion of the overall operational costs of a producer. Hence, effective and efficient management of transportation and distribution of goods is becoming increasingly important both from the point of view of theoretical research and from the point of view of practical applications. These problems are generically known as Vehicle Routing Problems (VRP). The classical VRP consists of determining the best set of routes for a fleet of vehicles originating and terminating at a single central depot to distribute goods to a set of customers geographically dispersed, while minimizing the total travel distance/time or the total distribution cost. In addition, some problems have pre-set time constraints on the periods of the day in which deliveries should take place. They are known as Vehicle Routing Problems with Time Windows (VRPTW). In these problems customers have time windows associated which are characterized by the earliest and the latest allowable times within which the service should begin. The goal is to determine the optimal set of routes and the optimal sequence of customers visited by each vehicle, taking into account vehicle capacities, service times and time windows. These time windows are hard constraints when a route is not feasible if the service of any customer does not start within the limits established by the time window. These are Vehicle Routing Problems with Hard Time Windows (VRPHTW). In other cases, both lower and upper bounds of the time window need not be met, but can be violated at a penalty. These are Vehicle Routing Problems with Soft Time Windows (VRPSTW). Due to its importance, there is a vast literature that addresses modeling and solution aspects of both VRP and VRPTW. Comprehensive reviews of these problems are presented in [2] , [6] , [10] , [11] , [24]  and  [28] . All these combinatorial optimization problems have been proven to be NP-hard and only relatively small instances can be solved to optimality due to their huge computational requirements. Methodology involves the use of branch and bound methods [3]  and  [15] , column generation [8] and Lagrangian relaxation [14] . For larger problems, researchers usually focus on heuristic and meta-heuristic (tabu search, genetic algorithms, simulated annealing) methods to derive approximate solutions of acceptable quality in reasonable computational time [7] , [12] , [13]  and  [23] . The number of references in VRPSTW is relatively small. Sexton and Choi [22] consider a single-vehicle pickup-and-delivery routing problem where each load has its own origin and its own destination. They minimize a linear combination of total vehicle operating time and total customer penalty due to missing any of the time windows, and solve the problem by Benders’ decomposition. Min [17] considers a single-vehicle library distribution system with a single depot where the daily distribution activity starts and ends. He incorporates customer’s specific time window preferences into the modeling process and propose a goal approach to solve the problem. The objectives are to minimize the total travel time and the deviations from time window preferences. Koskosidis et al. [16] propose an heuristic approach for the VRPSTW which iterates between a generalized assignment problem to assign customers to vehicles and a series of routing and scheduling problems defined by traveling salesman problems with soft time windows constraints. Balakrishnan [1] proposes three heuristics for the VRPSTW with a homogeneous fleet based on the nearest neighbor, Clarke-Wright savings and space–time rules. The cost of violating time windows is assumed to be a linear function of the amount of time window violation. Taillard et al. [26] propose a tabu search heuristic to solve a VRPSTW in which total distance traveled plus total penalty incurred for not serving in the time window is minimized. Fagerholt [9] deals with a multi-ship pickup and delivery problem with soft time windows in which inconvenience costs for serving customers outside their time windows are imposed. The sum of transportation costs and inconvenience costs is minimized by solving a set partitioning problem whose variables are feasible schedules. On the other hand, it is worth pointing out that most real-life delivery problems have other objectives in addition to minimizing the total travel distance/time or the total distribution cost. For instance, to avoid underutilization of labor or vehicle capacity, while meeting the preferences of customers regarding the time of the day in which they would like to be served. This results in a multiobjective VRP. Past years, great attention has been paid to the development of methodologies for dealing with multiobjective programming problems [5] , [25]  and  [29] . Amongst the most popular of these is the goal programming (GP) approach [19] , [21]  and  [27] . Underlying GP is a concept of satisfying of objectives, i.e. to seek a solution that comes as close as possible to the goals. For this purpose a target level is established which represents an acceptable level of achievement for each objective. Deviational variables are defined in order to represent the amount by which we numerically exceed or are under the corresponding target. Usually, GP models are classified into two different categories [27] . In weighted goal programming, weights are assigned to deviations from targets levels which reflect the decision maker’s rating of the importance of these deviations. Then, the total penalty is minimized. In lexicographic or preemptive goal programming priorities are assigned to goals. Next, goals are minimized one at a time in order of priority. At each successive minimization, higher priority level optimum values are maintained as determined in previous minimizations. In this paper, we consider a general medium-sized delivery problem with soft and hard time windows, a heterogeneous fleet of vehicles and multiple objectives. Its purpose is to investigate the use of goal programming to model the problem and propose an approach to solve it providing an optimal solution in a reasonable computational time in terms of real applications. As we will see in the paper, on the one hand, the inclusion of multiple objectives and specific constraints in the general setting of VRP makes the model more complicated and highlights the difficulties regarding the time needed to solve it optimally with standard optimization software. Nevertheless, on the other hand, these features can also be exploited to come up with solving procedures that, at first sight, might not seem very efficient. Keeping this in mind, we propose not to directly solve the resulting goal programming model with a general purpose software, but to carry out a two-step approach that we call ‘enumeration-followed-by-optimization (EFBO)’ approach. This procedure consists of firstly enumerating all feasible routes and computing its deviations from targets. Secondly, the best set of routes according to the goals previously established are selected by solving a set partitioning problem. A similar approach has been taken in [9] to deal with a multi-ship pickup and delivery problem with soft time windows. Also this approach has been adopted in [20] to get an optimal solution to a real feed compound distribution problem. The special characteristics of vehicles, which are compartmentalized, reduces the number of feasible routes. As noted in both papers, the efficiency of the procedure lies on the number of feasible routes which have to be dealt with. The remainder of the paper is organized as follows. We start in Section 2 by presenting a comprehensive description of the VRPTW tackled and formulating a goal programming model. Section 3 goes on developing the EFBO approach. Finally, in Section 4 an experiment is carried out to evaluate the computational efficiency of the procedure and we conclude with a summary.