  A number of technological advances have led to a renewed interest in dynamic vehicle routing problems. This survey classifies routing problems from the perspective of information quality and evolution. After presenting a general description of dynamic routing, we introduce the notion of degree of dynamism, and present a comprehensive review of applications and solution methods for dynamic vehicle routing problems. ► We review the research on dynamic vehicle routing. ► Our taxonomy is based on quality and evolution of information. ► We present several real-world applications of dynamic vehicle routing. ► We survey the current state-of-the-art solution techniques for dynamic routing. ► We describe promising research directions on dynamic routing. Keywords Transportation ; Combinatorial optimization ; Dynamic vehicle routing 1. Introduction The Vehicle Routing Problem (VRP) formulation was first introduced by Dantzig and Ramser [35] , as a generalization of the Traveling Salesman Problem (TSP) presented by Flood [49] . The VRP is generally defined on a graph G = ( V , E , C ) , where V={v 0 ,…,v n } V = { v 0 , … , v n } is the set of vertices; E = { ( v i , v j ) | ( v i , v j ) ∈ V 2 , i ≠ j } is the arc set; and C=(c ij ) (v i ,v j )∈E C = ( c ij ) ( v i , v j ) ∈ E is a cost matrix defined over E E , representing distances, travel times, or travel costs. Traditionally, vertex v 0 is called the depot   , while the remaining vertices in V V represent customers (or requests ) that need to be served. The VRP consists in finding a set of routes for K identical vehicles based at the depot, such that each of the vertices is visited exactly once, while minimizing the overall routing cost . Beyond this classical formulation, a number of variants have been studied. Among the most common are the Capacitated VRP (CVRP), where each customer has a demand for a good and vehicles have finite capacity; the VRP with Time Windows (VRPTW), where each customer must be visited during a specific time frame; the VRP with Pick-up and Delivery (PDP), where goods have to be picked-up and delivered in specific amounts at the vertices; and the Heterogeneous fleet VRP (HVRP), where vehicles have different capacities. Routing problems that involve moving people between locations are referred to as Dial-A-Ride-Problem (DARP) for land transport; or Dial-A-Flight-Problem (DAFP), for air transport. In contrast to the classical definition of the vehicle routing problem, real-world applications often include two important dimensions: evolution and quality of information [116] . Evolution of information relates to the fact that in some problems the information available to the planner may change during the execution of the routes, for example, with the arrival of new customer requests. Quality of information reflects possible uncertainty on the available data, for instance, when the demand of a customer is only known as a range estimate of its real demand. In addition, depending on the problem and the available technology, vehicle routes can either be designed statically (a priori) or dynamically. For instance, the VRP with Stochastic Demands (VRPSD), can be seen from both perspectives. From a static perspective, the problem is to design a set of robust routes a priori, that will undergo minor changes during their execution [16]  and  [53] . From a dynamic perspective, the problem consists in designing the vehicle routes in an online fashion, communicating to the vehicle which customer to serve next as soon as it becomes idle [104] , [127]  and  [128] . Based on these dimensions, Table 1 identifies four categories of routing problems.