  This paper proposes algorithms to automatically discretize vehicle routing zones (VRZ) from continuum approximation guidelines. VRZs that satisfy these guidelines (i.e., shape and size requirements) are useful to the planning and operation of distribution systems in several practical contexts. In the literature, however, VRZ design normally requires human intervention, and this is inconvenient and time-consuming especially for large-scale and complex systems. This study fills this gap by utilizing a combination of spatial partitioning techniques to systematically obtain optimum zone designs. Numerical examples show that the proposed algorithm yields satisfying outcomes. Keywords Vehicle routing ; Large-scale ; Continuum approximation ; Disk model ; Weighted centroidal Voronoi tessellation 1. Introduction The design of practical large-scale distribution systems often reduces to solving vehicle routing problems (VRP). When input data (e.g., customer locations) are random, such problems are often termed as stochastic vehicle routing problems (SVRP). Ball et al. (1995) give a comprehensive review on those extensively studied subjects. On the strategic level, we are often interested in minimizing the expected total travel distance to serve randomly scattered customers by vehicles from a given depot. Examples include the design of postal delivery systems or shuttle services, where it is advantageous to partition the area of customers into fixed vehicle routing zones (VRZ). In a more general context, VRZ partitioning is beneficial to SVRP in the framework of two-stage stochastic program with recourse. Recent studies ( Daganzo and Erera, 1999  and  Erera, 2000 ) propose flexible design strategies for large-scale stochastic systems, where dynamic control plans are built on an initial design of delivery zones. Each of these zones is expected to contain a certain number of customers, V , on average. First, fixed delivery zones are planned optimally for the long run in terms of expected total distance. Then, in day-to-day operations, unused vehicle capacities in some zones and over-flow demands in other zones would be matched by either additional or re-routed vehicle tours; i.e., tour failures are consolidated into secondary “sweeper” routes. The total system cost is formulated as a function of V and other decision variables. Then, the hierarchical long-term strategic design and short-term operational components are combined into one integrated optimization model to provide a good overall solution. VRZ designs are also useful for solving operational-level VRP instances that arise as SVRP realizations; e.g., after random customer locations become known. Clarens and Hurdle, 1975  and  Robuste et al., 1990 follow a “cluster first–route second” flavor, and propose a continuum approximation (CA) based hybrid algorithm to solve VRP instances. Before customer locations are known, strategic VRZs are designed based on customer distribution information (e.g., probability density). Such zones satisfy qualitative size and shape requirements and serve as clustering tools, such that near-optimum feasible tours can be easily constructed from these zones once customer locations become known. This algorithm is somewhat similar to other cluster-first–route-second algorithms such as the general assignment heuristic ( Fisher and Jaikumar, 1981 ) and the location based heuristic ( Bramel and Simchi-Levi, 1995 ). Robuste et al. (1990) use numerical examples to show that this simple VRZ-based routing method outperformed some meta-heuristic methods (i.e., simulated annealing) used alone. Finally, the near-optimum routes can be further improved by meta-heuristic methods ( Daganzo, 1984a  and  Robuste et al., 1990 ), because the performances of meta-heuristic methods are often significantly influenced by the selection of initial solutions. 1.1. Optimal shape and size of VRZ Given these potential applications, the design of delivery zones each serving an average number of V customers has been studied ( Daganzo, 1984a , Daganzo, 1984b , Newell and Daganzo, 1986a , Newell and Daganzo, 1986b  and  Newell, 1986 ). These references propose VRZ design guidelines based on a continuum approximation (CA) optimization scheme. They assume that the stochastic customer locations are described by a density function (i.e., the expected number of customer per unit area) that varies slowly in a distance comparable to the size of one zone. It has been shown that a near-optimum zone (in terms of minimizing expected total distance) would approximately be rectangular, elongated toward the depot, and containing an expected number of V customers. To form a partition, however, the zones should approximately take the shape of a wedge and collectively form a ring-radial type of partition. Fig. 1 illustrates an idealized case in Newell and Daganzo (1986a) . In this reference, they also derive formulae to predict the expected total distances. Fig. 1.  More specifically, suppose we serve customers in a continuous area S from a depot at x 0 (see Fig. 2 ). Denote the customer density at x  = ( r ,  α ) ∈  S by δ ( x ), and suppose distances are measured on a dense ring-radial network 1 (rectilinear metric under polar coordinates) centered at the depot. Now consider a generic wedge-shaped zone, Z i , in a near-optimum design (obviously Z i  ⊂  S ). We define its center x i  = ( r i ,  α i ) as the midpoint along both its radial and transverse directions (see Fig. 2 ). The guideline in Daganzo, 1984a  and  Newell and Daganzo, 1986a says that if the zone does not touch or contain the depot, its radial length l and open angle θ should approximately be functions of x i ; i.e., equation ( 1 )