Password: This paper provides a review of the recent developments that had a major impact on the current state-of-the-art exact algorithms for the vehicle routing problem (VRP). The paper reviews mathematical formulations, relaxations and recent exact methods for two of the most important variants of the VRP: the capacitated VRP (CVRP) and the VRP with time windows (VRPTW). The paper also reports a comparison of the computational performances of the different exact algorithms for the CVRP and VRPTW. ► This paper reviews developments on algorithms for the vehicle routing problem (VRP). ► We consider two variants: the capacitated VRP and the VRP with time windows. ► We report a comparison of the computational performances of the exact algorithms. Keywords Vehicle routing ; Exact algorithms ; Survey 1. Introduction Vehicle routing problem (VRP) is a generic name given to a whole class of problems involving the design of optimal routes for a fleet of vehicles to service a set of customers subject to side constraints. The VRP is a central problem in the physical delivery of goods and services. In practice, several variants of the VRP exist, depending on the nature of the transported goods, the quality of service required, and the characteristics of customers and vehicles. Some typical complications are heterogeneous vehicles located at different depots, customers incompatible with certain vehicle types, customers accepting delivery within specified time windows, multiple-day planning horizons and vehicles performing multiple routes. In all cases, the objective is to supply the customers at minimum cost. The simplest and most studied member of the VRP family is the capacitated VRP (CVRP). In the CVRP, a fleet of identical vehicles located at a central depot has to be optimally routed to supply a set of customers with known demands. Each vehicle can perform at most one route and the total demand of the customers visited by a route cannot exceed the vehicle capacity. Another important variant of the VRP is the VRP with time windows (VRPTW) that generalizes the CVRP by imposing that each customer is visited within a specified time interval, called time window . Several heuristics have been proposed for the CVRP and its variants in the literature. For surveys of both exact and heuristic methods for these VRPs up to 2002, the reader is referred to Toth and Vigo (2002) . In this paper, we survey the most effective exact methods proposed for the CVRP and the VRPTW in the literature in the last ten years. Section 2 reviews exact methods for the CVRP while Section 3 deals with exact methods for the VRPTW. Conclusions are reported in Section 4 . 2. The capacitated vehicle routing problem (CVRP) The CVRP can be described as follows. An undirected graph G  = ( V ′,  E ) is given where V ′ = {0, 1, … ,  n } is the set of n  + 1 vertices and E is the set of edges. Vertex 0 represents the depot, and the vertex set V  =  V ′⧹{0} corresponds to n customers. A nonnegative cost d ij is associated with each edge { i ,  j } ∈  E . Each customer i  ∈  V requires a supply of q i units of goods from depot 0 (we assume q 0  = 0). A set of m identical vehicles of capacity Q is stationed at the depot and must be used to supply the customers. A route is defined as a least-cost elementary cycle R  = (0,  i 1 , … ,  i h , 0) of graph G passing through the depot and such that the total demand of the customers visited does not exceed the vehicle capacity. The cost c ( R ) of a route is equal to the cost of the solution to the Traveling Salesman Problem (TSP) defined by the set R of vertices. The CVRP is to design m   routes of minimum cost, one for each vehicle, so that all customers are visited exactly once; the CVRP is NP NP -hard as it is a natural generalization of the TSP. Many formulations have been proposed for the CVRP (see Achuthan and Caccetta, 1991 , Toth and Vigo, 2002  and  Kara et al., 2004 ), but not all of them have been used to derive exact algorithms. Currently, the most successful exact methods for the CVRP are based on the two-index flow formulation , the two-commodity flow formulation proposed by Baldacci et al. (2004) , and the set partitioning formulation proposed by Balinski and Quandt (1964) . These algorithms are described in Sections 2.1  and  2.2 . In Section 2.3 , a comparison of the computational performances of these algorithms is reported. 2.1. Branch-and-cut algorithms The branch-and-cut (BC) algorithms for the CVRP are based either on the two-index flow or the two-commodity flow formulation. Let S={S:S⊆V,|S|⩾2} S = { S : S ⊆ V , | S | ⩾ 2 } , and let q(S)=∑ i∈S q i q ( S ) = ∑ i ∈ S q i be the total demand of customers in S∈S S ∈ S and k ( S ) the minimum number of vehicles of capacity Q needed to service all customers in S . Moreover, let δ ( S ) be the cutset defined by S (i.e., δ ( S ) = { {i ,  j } ∈  E  :  i  ∈  S , j  ∉  S or i  ∉  S , j  ∈  S }. Let x ij be an integer variable that takes value in {0, 1}, for all { i ,  j } ∈  E ⧹{ { 0,  j } :  j  ∈  V }, and value in {0, 1, 2}, for all {0,  j }, j  ∈  V , with x ij  = 1 when edge { i ,  j } is traversed and x 0 j  = 2 when the single customer route (0,  j , 0) is in the solution.