  This paper studies a version of stochastic vehicle routing problems, in which travel and service times are stochastic, and a time window constraint is associated with each customer. This problem is originally formulated as a chance constrained programming model and a stochastic programming model with recourse in terms of different optimization criteria. To efficiently solve these two models, a heuristic based on tabu search, which takes into account the stochastic nature of this problem, is then proposed. Finally, some testing instances with different properties are established to investigate the algorithmic performance, and the computational results are then reported. Keywords Vehicle routing problem ; Stochastic travel time ; Stochastic service time ; Time windows ; Tabu search 1. Introduction The vehicle routing problem (VRP) is a classical combinatorial optimization problem that has become a key component of distribution and logistics management. From a graph theory point of view, the VRP can be formally defined as: let G ={ V , E   } be a completely undirected graph, where V={0,1,2,…,n} V = { 0 , 1 , 2 , … , n } is the vertex set, and E={(i,j),i,j∈V,i≠j} E = { ( i , j ) , i , j ∈ V , i ≠ j } is the edge set. V 0 =V⧹{0} V 0 = V ⧹ { 0 } denotes the customer set. 0 represents the depot from where a fleet of vehicles with identical capacity Q serves the customers. Each customer i has a fixed service demand q i , to be delivered from the depot (or to the depot) in service time δ i δ i . Each arc ( i , j ) is associated with a travel distance, or a travel cost c ij . In general, it is assumed that C =( c ij ) satisfies the triangle inequalities, i.e., c ij ≤c ik +c kj c ij ≤ c ik + c kj for all i,j,k∈V i , j , k ∈ V . The objective of the VRP consists of the determination of a vehicle scheduling strategy to minimize the route number, as well as to minimize the corresponding total travel distances or costs with the following constraints satisfied: (1) Each vehicle route begins at the depot and ends at the depot. (2) The service of each customer must only be fulfilled by one vehicle once. (3) The total demand of each route cannot exceed the vehicle capacity Q . (4) Each vehicle route satisfies some side constraints, e.g., duration and time window constraints. Since its introduction by Dantzig and Ramser (1959) , many different extended versions of the VRP have been studied. More and more constraints which make the resulting problems align better with real-life applications are being associated with the classical VRP. These extended versions include VRP with time windows (VRPTW) ( Fisher et al., 1997 ), the heterogeneous VRP (HVRP) ( Golden et al., 1984 ), the open VRP (OVRP) ( Li and Tian, 2006  and  Li et al., 2009 ), the VRP with backhauls (VRPB) ( Deif and Bodin, 1984 ) and the multi-period vehicle routing problem ( Zäpfel and Bögl, 2008 ). In all the above-mentioned problems, the deterministic VRP cannot cover real-life contexts when some components of the VRP are random or stochastic. These problems can be cast within the framework of stochastic vehicle routing problems (SVRP). In terms of the nature of the stochastic components, the SVRP can be divided into the following classes. The most common one is the VRP with stochastic demand (VRPSD), in which the vehicles serve a set of customers with stochastic and uncertain demands ( Tillman, 1969 , Stewart and Golden, 1983 , Bertsimas, 1992  and  Gendreau et al., 1995 ). The second class is the VRP with stochastic customers (VRPSC), in which each customer has a deterministic demand and a probability p of being present. The third version, which combines the VRPSD and VRPSC, is the VRP with stochastic customers and demands. For a detailed survey of the SVRP, one may refer to Gendreau et al. (1996a) . However, in practical situations, one may not know the travel and service times in advance. For example, weather or traffic conditions may result in the uncertainty of travel times between two vertexes. Furthermore, service times may be affected by distribution technology, the driver's skills, the parking conditions, and the conditions of the loading area. Therefore, it is important and necessary to study the VRP with stochastic travel and service times. In this paper, the VRP under consideration is another version of the SVRP, namely, the vehicle routing problem with time windows and stochastic travel and service times. It is abbreviated as SVRPTW in the following sections. This problem combines stochastic travel and service times with the VRPTW. Each pair of vertexes is associated with stochastic travel times, and each customer also has stochastic service times. The travel or service times are continuous or discrete random variables, which follow a probability distribution, e.g., uniform distribution, exponential distribution, and normal distribution, etc. In this paper, we assume that all these random variables, following the normal distribution, are independent. Furthermore, each customer has a time window constraint. In the presence of stochastic travel and service times, and time windows, the objective of the SVRPTW is to determine the vehicle routes that minimize the transportation costs. The vehicle routes may also satisfy other side constraints, i.e., route duration limit. To our knowledge, relatively little effort has been devoted to the study of the SVRPTW. Most related works can be found in Lambert et al. (1993) and Laporte et al. (1992) , which are dedicated to the m traveling salesman problem (TSP) with stochastic travel times ( m -TSPST). The problem studied by Lambert et al. (1993) is to design money collection routes with stochastic travel times through bank branches. The authors proposed a mathematical formulation based on integer programs, and a heuristic algorithm based on the saving algorithm by Clarke and Wright (1964) . Laporte et al. (1992) considered the m TSP with stochastic travel times, as well as stochastic service times. The vehicle incurs a penalty for exceeding the route duration limit. The authors proposed a chance constrained model, and the three-index and two-index recourse models. A branch and cut algorithm was proposed and computational results for randomly generated recourse versions of the problem were reported. In principle, the VRP studied in these two papers is not the SVRP, but stochastic m -TSP.