Password: The class of vehicle routing problems involves the optimization of freight or passenger transportation activities. These problems are generally treated via the representation of the road network as a weighted complete graph. Each arc of the graph represents the shortest route for a possible origin–destination connection. Several attributes can be defined for one arc (travel time, travel cost, etc.), but the shortest route modeled by this arc is computed according to a single criterion, generally travel time. Consequently, some alternative routes proposing a different compromise between the attributes of the arcs are discarded from the solution space. We propose to consider these alternative routes and to evaluate their impact on solution algorithms and solution values through a multigraph representation of the road network. We point out the difficulties brought by this representation for general vehicle routing problems, which drives us to introduce the so-called fixed sequence arc selection problem (FSASP). We propose a dynamic programming solution method for this problem. In the context of an on-demand transportation (ODT) problem, we then propose a simple insertion algorithm based on iterative FSASP solving and a branch-and-price exact method. Computational experiments on modified instances from the literature and on realistic data issued from an ODT system in the French Doubs Central area underline the cost savings brought by the proposed methods using the multigraph model. Keywords Vehicle routing ; Multigraph ; Shortest path problem with resource constraints ; Dynamic programming ; On-demand transportation ; Dial-a-ride problem 1. Introduction The class of vehicle routing problems has drawn many researchers’ and industrial practitioners’ attention during the last decades. These problems involve the optimization of freight or passenger transportation activities. They are generally treated via the representation of the road network as a weighted complete graph, constructed as follows. The vertex set is the set of origin or destination points. Arcs represent shortest paths between pairs of vertices. Several attributes can be defined for one arc (travel time, travel cost, etc.), but the shortest path implied by this arc is computed according to a single criterion, generally travel time. Consequently, some alternative paths proposing a different compromise between these attributes are discarded from the solution space, as illustrated in Fig. 1 . In the remainder of this paper, we call road-paths, the paths of the original road network so as to distinguish them from the paths relative to the new graph (working graph in the figure). Fig. 1.  Simple graph construction. Not considering alternative paths can be disadvantageous in many situations. A typical example is provided by On-Demand Transportation (ODT) systems. In such systems, transportation plans need to be computed, to satisfy point-to-point transportation requests, according to some quality of service constraints and/or objectives. Though the road-path retained between two (origin or destination) customer locations is generally set as the min-time road-path, the driver or the shipper might prefer a cheaper itinerary in case time is non-critical. If the customer pays according to the distance (which is generally not the case in ODT systems, but is true in taxis), avoiding fast but long-distance sections could also be of interest (for the customer). Note that computing the shortest path matrix according to distance instead of time could induce similar drawbacks, for example considering sections with heavy traffic. Section 4 will develop the example of an ODT system implemented in the Doubs Central area in France. In this work, we propose to represent the road network by a multigraph, so that alternative routes are considered. Ideally, this approach would define one arc between two vertices for each Pareto optimal road-path according to arc attributes in the road network. Any good road-path would then be captured in the graph. In practice, one could prefer just to consider a reasonable set of arcs between two vertices. At least two other situations would deserve to be further explored, but will be left as perspectives here. A first situation would be the case of a traveler having several transportation modes at his disposal (foot, metro, tramway, bus, etc.) and having to decide how to combine them to reach some destination. If transportation modes can be competitive for the same piece of trip, the multigraph representation appears to be well-suited as long as the schedule of facilities can be neglected (as it is often the case for a tramway or a metro for example, but not for a train). Several papers deal with multimodal transportation in the literature ( Horn, 2002 , Horn, 2003  and  Bielli et al., 2006 ). However, to the best of our knowledge, they all consider a single-request. Hence, the problem is to determine an optimal (or a set of optimal) trip from an origin to a destination in a multigraph, where arcs correspond to different transportation modes and nodes to interchange points. A second situation would be met by a touristic traveler. One might then have some clearly identified destination points and different possibilities (with different duration and touristic interests) of linking these points. Actually, having a multigraph representation makes sense as soon as several attributes are defined on arcs. Although original, the use of a multigraph representation in the context of vehicle routing is not entirely new. A recent work by Baldacci et al. (2006) introduces a similar representation to solve the so-called Multiple Disposal Facilities and Multiple Inventory Locations Rollon–Rolloff Vehicle Routing Problem . The topic is to transport trailers between customers, disposal facilities and inventory locations. In this context, the multigraph dimension stems from the enumeration a priori of valid sequences of movements between customers. An exact solution method based on a Set Partitioning formulation and a sophisticated iterative bounding procedure is proposed. In this paper, our first objective is to evaluate the tractability and the interest of the multigraph representation. Our second objective is to propose an efficient vehicle routing solution scheme for an actual ODT system. We describe the multigraph representation in Section 2 . Section 3 focuses on the new difficulties it implies for general vehicle routing problem solving and proposes a dynamic programming solution method for the underlying fixed sequence arc selection problem. In the context of a practical ODT system, Section 4 presents an insertion heuristic and an exact branch-and-price method and evaluates their results on modified instances from the literature and on real-life data issued from an ODT system in the French Doubs Central area. Concluding remarks are drawn in Section 5 . 2. Multigraph representation Let G 0  = ( V 0 ,  A 0 ) be the graph induced by a road network. An arc of A 0 typically represents a link between two crossroads or a portion of road having consistent characteristics (slope, direction, sinuosity, etc.). G 0 has the advantage to offer a complete and precise description of the physical layout, but can reach a size detrimental to the efficient execution of routing optimization procedures. We consider here that each arc ( i ,  j ) ∈  A 0 is characterized by R  + 1 attributes ( R  ⩾ 1): d ij (0), …,  d ij ( R ). Attributes can indifferently represent duration, distance, cost, interest, roughness, etc.