Password: Both within and between urban conurbations, the time of a journey and the corresponding shortest path in a road network from an origin to a destination may depend on the time of the day, the day of the week and the season of the year. Significant journey time differences occur mainly due to recurring instances and variations in levels of traffic congestion throughout the year. This paper examines the issues involved in constructing a database of road times for a road network that uses time-dependent data on the travel times for individual roads in the network to provide the expected times and distances between locations for journeys starting at different times. The benefits of time-dependent vehicle routing and scheduling systems are demonstrated by using real-world data for the road network in the north west of England. Keywords Road networks ; Vehicle routing ; Vehicle scheduling ; Time-dependent networks 1. Introduction There has been considerable research to provide techniques for solving vehicle routing and scheduling problems (see, for example, [1] ). Exact optimal solution methods are available for small-scale problems and for some problems with particular structures. However, heuristic methods are often required to solve problems of a realistic size, which include all the constraints and features that are important in practice. The survey accompanying the article by Hall [2] describes the capabilities of commercially available vehicle routing software. Most of the research published is based on models where the time between nodes on a road network is regarded as fixed. In practice, this is generally not the case and the time taken for any journey may vary significantly by the time of the day, the day of the week and the season of the year in which the journey takes place. This is an issue that may have important consequences for the use of the results from fixed-time models by vehicle fleet managers. The majority of current vehicle routing and scheduling software (both commercial and academic) offers solutions to the problem in either minimum mileage or minimum time for each set of routes calculated. As a result of increases in traffic congestion and the emergence of ‘time’ as the real cost driver, commercial vehicle users have begun to use minimum travel time as their chosen ‘optimum’ rather than minimum mileage. In these instances the travel time calculation may be based upon a single set travel time for various classifications of road. At best such set travel times on selected road types or road lengths may be reduced by a defined percentage to lower road speeds at particular times of the day when traffic congestion is known to occur. Thus a particular motorway section may, for example, may warrant a normal speed of 50 mph for commercial vehicles except between 07.00 and 09.00 h when the speed may be reduced by a factor of 65% to 32.5 mph. Most commercial vehicle operators recognise (from such evidence as tachograph analysis) that individual road speeds differ considerably from hour to hour, by day of the week and season of the year. A study undertaken for one large UK commercial vehicle operator by means of both tachograph analysis and data from an individual vehicle tracking and tracing system showed that on one section of motorway in the North of England the same commercial vehicle speeds varied in one week from 5 mph (at 08.45 on the Monday) to 55 mph (at 20.15 on the Wednesday). However, when the recorded speeds were compared over a 10 week period the variation in speed recorded for the same time of day and day of the week was less than 5%. This implies that vehicle speeds may be forecast accurately for any single road length at particular times of the day for any day of the week. It may also be concluded that the greater the variation in vehicle speeds on a particular type of road throughout the day, or between the days of the week, the greater the inaccuracy of vehicle scheduling systems which identify travel time by using set travel times for each type of road. In an on-going survey in the UK of over 50 users of vehicle routing and scheduling systems, with up to 20 issues to choose from, 100% of directors/managers, 100% of vehicle schedulers and 66% of drivers questioned declared one of the top five issues to be significant inaccuracy with their systems due to the credibility of the forecast times quoted for individual vehicle trips. Furthermore, amongst all the respondents, the most popular reason for inaccurate timings was traffic congestion (85%) as a result of peak traffic volumes or road works (factors which are generally predictable). A minority of respondents also commented that the real problem with their routing and scheduling system was that they had to adjust manually after the routes were produced for significant and re-occurring timing variations in local road speeds over the same distance. Typical comments from respondents included: ‘ Locally road speeds change on the same stretch of road both at different times of the day and between different days of the week ’. Transport scheduler for an owner operator ‘ Our ( routing and scheduling ) system gives the management the same forecast time for a route on the day shift as on the night shift , but we know ( based upon job and finish ) that the night shift driver will complete the route in an average of 62% of the time taken by the day shift driver if the night driver does not encounter any traffic accidents or road closures ’ Transport Manager for a haulier working on retail deliveries ‘ … … our ( routing and scheduling ) system cannot be relied upon to provide accurate results so significant manual adjustments need to be undertaken before we finalise our routes for the next day ’ Logistics Director with a fleet of vehicles delivering white goods nationally Despite all respondents having knowledge of potential timing inaccuracies in their vehicle routing and scheduling solutions only 56% of the respondents declared they manually reviewed and adjusted the vehicle routes provided before settling upon the routes. Those who did not review the routes produced by their routing and scheduling system (45% of the respondents) accepted the implications of regular occurrences of drivers’ overtime charges (38%), additional overnight allowances (22%) and on multi-drop trips failure to achieve all the deliveries on a shift (14%). These results imply that everyone (managers, schedulers and drivers) understands that current routing and scheduling systems will offer inaccurate timings, but there is little that may be done with current systems except manual review and adjustment of the routes produced. In the past, one of the barriers to incorporate time-dependent travel times in models (apart from increasing the model complexity) was the lack of available data. However, such data is now becoming available through various traffic monitoring systems. These may be provided by static installations for monitoring the speeds of vehicles at different points in the road network. Alternative systems provide the data by monitoring the position and speed of vehicles that are fitted with tracking devices. In the UK, the ITIS Floating Vehicle Data (FVD ® ® ) provides a national road network monitoring system. The system can be used to update journey times based on current road conditions, but also provides a record of past conditions so that travel times can be related to the time of the day, the day of the week and the season of the year. This is used to produce information on time-dependent journey times for a road network and is known as a Road Timetable TM TM . This paper discusses the issues involved in creating a Road Timetable TM TM that will provide the minimum time and shortest-time path between pairs of nodes on a network at different times of the day, days of the week and seasons of the year using historical time-dependent travel times for the roads in the network. Once time-dependent travel times are used, then not only the minimum time, but also the route of the shortest-time path may vary depending on the time of the journey. This phenomenon will be familiar to drivers who may choose to drive on a fast uncongested road, even though the journey may be longer in distance than a more direct route through a congested urban area. A Road Timetable TM TM needs to hold a large amount of data. For each origin-destination pair of interest, the minimum time and the shortest-time path is required for many different starting times. When the origin-destination pairs are far apart on a large regional or national road network, there is a significant computational challenge in designing an algorithm to find all the minimum times and shortest-time paths efficiently. This paper describes an effective way of dealing with this issue by dividing journeys into stages, distinguishing between travel on minor roads close to the origin or destination points and travel on major trunk roads or motorways.