Over the past several decades, the legal impediments to the transportation industry have hindered the productivity of a firm's transportation activities. However, the passage of landmark deregulatory reforms in the Motor Carrier Act of 1980 has created more productive transportation options. One of these options is "backhauling," an efficient way to reduce transportation costs by filling empty trucks on their way back to the home base after delivering goods to customers.(1) The Interstate Commerce Commission News(2) reported that the potential fuel savings as a result of loaded backhaul movements could exceed 42 million gallons a year nationally. Due to such large cost saving opportunities, backhauling has become a growing trend in the transportation industry, as evidenced by a recent NCPDM Survey that revealed that 83 percent of transportation firms wanted to consider backhauling options.(3) Industries for which such savings are possible include distribution of dairy products, agricultural items, pharmaceutical goods, dry cleaning supplies, electronic appliances, automobiles, and hardware items, among others. In pursuing this strategy, one of the major questions facing transportation managers is how to construct the vehicle routes to include backhauling. This broad question can be further classified into three specific questions: (1) which pickup points should be included for backhauling, (2) which trucks should be allocated to which delivery and pickup points, and (3) in what sequence should delivery and pickup points be served. To answer such questions, a mathematical approach is developed for solving a new vehicle routing problem with backhauling (VRPB). The proposed model is capable of dealing with multiple vehicles and multiple depots, both of which are capacitated. Because of the computational complexity inherent in solving the VRPB, the problem is decomposed into submodels. This procedure consists of three phases: (1) allocation of customers and vendors to capacitated clusters, (2) assignment of customers and vendors to depots and routes, and (3) individual route configuration. This decomposition procedure allowed us to solve a real-world problem with three depots, 134 customers, and 27 vendors in 130 CPU seconds on a VAX-11/780 system. The next section reviews the literature related to the VRPB presented here. The literature review is followed by a more precise definition of the VRPB. Then, the various mathematical formulations and solution procedures for the VRPB are presented. The remaining section is devoted to model application and testing using "real-world" data. The paper concludes with a discussion of the implications and contributions of this research effort. REVIEW OF THE BACKHAULING LITERATURE Transportation regulation has long prohibited trucking firms from utilizing backhauling options. After Section 8 of the Motor Carrier Act of 1980 overturned previous regulatory laws, the issue of backhauling was raised by many practitioners and academicians because of its great cost saving potential. Since 1980, however, only a few analytical studies on backhauling have been conducted. Ballou and Chowdhury(4) were among the first to incorporate a backhauling option into vehicle routing models. They initiated backhauling studies by including both deliveries and pickups on the same vehicle routes and by considering two different modes of vehicles, namely private and common carriers. In an effort to better utilize truck fleets, they considered the use of common carriers when restrictions on driving distances or times prevented the use of private carriers on the return trip. A computer-based conceptual model was suggested to handle carrier selection problems for backhaul routes. Jordan and Burns(5) developed continuous and discrete mathematical models for reducing empty truck-miles via backhauling for two terminal networks. The continuous model was designed to examine the impacts of terminal location and freight flow on total backhaul savings. The discrete model was developed to decide which loads should be backhauled to minimize empty truck-miles. These models, however, were limited to backhaul problems with only two terminals. Later, Jordan(6) extended this earlier work by considering more than two terminals. The model did not design the delivery route but rather designed the backhaul route given that the delivery route was already determined. In an effort to determine how private carriers should be routed to backhaul goods from vendors near customers, Yano et al.(7) applied the "customized" route generation procedure for use on a personal computer. The customized route generation procedure was combined with an efficient set-covering procedure based on Lagrangean relaxation to construct optimal routes and assign those routes to private carriers. To reduce computational time necessary to find optimal routes, the set-covering procedure considered only a limited number of "good" feasible routes that included "many" pickups preceded by "many" deliveries. The good feasible routes were obtained by heuristically solving a constrained traveling salesman problem (with deliveries preceding pickups). Casco et al.(8) solved the VRP with backhauls by utilizing the Clarke and Wright Savings Method(9) and Cheapest Insertion method originally proposed by Rosenkrantz et al.(10) Initially, without backhauling considerations, pure delivery problems were solved by using the Clarke and Wright Savings method; next, pickup points were served by additional vehicles that were used for the pickup process only. Finally, backhauls were inserted onto the initial feasible delivery-routes generated by the Clarke and Wright Savings method. The decision to insert backhauls was primarily based on the size of delivery loads after the pickup process. A penalty was assessed according to remaining delivery loads at a certain point. A high penalty cost was arbitrarily assigned to a backhaul insertion with a large remaining delivery load. The advantage of this load-based insertion procedure is that, if the delivery load that remains is small enough, the backhaul can be inserted prior to the completion of a delivery route. All of the studies reviewed here developed models and/or solution procedures for the backhaul problem. None of the previous analytical studies, however, have addressed the VRPB with multiple depots. In fact, all the prior studies but Jordan(11) considered a single depot. Jordan considered multiple depots, but focused on "backhaul zoning" rather than "backhaul routing." In other words, he was mainly concerned with separating customers into two groups: those to be served and those not to be served by backhauling. Consequently, he did not design the model to determine the sequence of deliveries and pickups on the route. Also, none of the earlier models was designed to determine vehicle fleet size. Table 1 summarizes the research described above. (Table 1 omitted) A primary purpose of the research reported in this paper is to include these last two considerations into a VRPB model; consequently, this paper extends earlier works by developing a method that solves the VRPB with multiple depots and simultaneously determines the fleet size. PROBLEM STATEMENT This study is concerned with the problem of coordinating shipments moving in opposite directions, i.e., outbound and inbound shipments, from and to several depots--consequently, it is similar to the multiple depot VRP. It is different, however, from the multiple depot VRP in that it considers both deliveries and pickups on the same vehicle route with precedence relationships between deliveries and pickups, whereas the multiple depot VRP considers only either deliveries or pickups on a route. Throughout this paper, the aforementioned problem will be referred to as "a multiple depot VRP with backhauling (MDVRPB)." The MDVRPB occurs when trucks return empty after delivering goods to their customers. To minimize these empty-truck-miles, i.e., deadhead travel distances, we consider the possibility that private carriers will be able to pick up goods or raw materials from multiple vendors after the delivery process has been completed. Theoretically, backhauls may include pickups prior to the end of a delivery route if the remaining delivery load is small enough to accommodate the pickup load. However, most trucks are rear-loaded and delivery after pickup requires the reshuffling of loads. Consequently, we do not consider such a case in this paper; we consider backhauling only after all outbound deliveries have been made. In practice, of course, both vehicles and depots are assumed to have finite capacities. Vehicles can hold only a limited amount of goods, and depots are able to service only a limited number of loadings and unloadings. Subsequently, route design must not violate these restrictions. In light of these characteristics, the model developed here assumes both capacitated vehicles and depots. Given the above problem context, the main issues to be addressed are: (1) determination of the fleet size to serve customers and vendors, (2) allocation of vehicles to depots, (3) allocation of customers and vendors to vehicles, and (4) routing of vehicles. Unfortunately, even the VRP without the consideration of backhauling belongs to the class of problems known as NP hard;(12) consequently, it is unlikely that a computationally efficient algorithm exists to solve the MDVRPB optimally. Therefore, we present a heuristic solution procedure for this problem in the next section. SOLUTION METHODOLOGY The proposed heuristic for the MDVRPB decomposes the problem into three basic phases: (1) aggregation of customers and vendors to capacited clusters, (2) assignment of customer and vendor clusters to a depot and route, and (3) the design of individual vehicle routes. These phases are addressed sequentially, with the output of one phase serving the input for the next. This decomposition procedure allows us to solve the MDVRPB for real-world sized distribution problems efficiently. In the following subsections, we provide detailed descriptions of and justifications for the proposed decomposition solution procedure. DETERMINATION OF CUSTOMER AND VENDOR CLUSTERS The initial phase aggregates customers and vendors into "capacitated clusters" based upon spatial proximity. The capacitated clusters are formed by grouping customers and vendors such that the total delivery size of customers or the total pickup size of vendors within each cluster does not exceed the capacity limit of the vehicle that is to be assigned to the cluster. Since each cluster will require a vehicle, this phase also determines the number of vehicles needed at each depot. The motivation for this aggregation is based on the fact that, in practice, we rarely see uniformly located customers and vendors. That is to say, most customers and vendors are concentrated in densely populated metropolitan areas or industrial complexes. As a result, the aggregation of customers and vendors into a certain number of clusters based on their spatial proximity generally helps generate good initial tours of the vehicles. The idea of aggregating a set of nodes prior to the construction of vehicle routes is not novel. Numerous VRP studies(13) have successfully utilized such a scheme. None of these, however, explored the use of statistical clustering techniques proposed here to restrict the size of the clusters to be less than the capacity of the vehicles. As opposed to those earlier VRP studies, we propose a capacitated clustering procedure to aggregate customers and vendors. The resulting clusters will consist entirely of either customers or vendors and will be able to be served by a single vehicle. The major appeal of this clustering procedure is its effectiveness in dealing with a large number of customers and vendors without severe computational difficulty, particularly when destinations (customers and vendors) are reasonably close together.(14) However, the clustering procedure is not without potential drawbacks, since it creates routes based on the surrogate distances from depots to the centroids of destinations rather than actual distances. For instance, clustering may result in very lengthy routes, when (1) customer demand is lumpy, (2) the volume associated with any natural clusters do not closely match vehicle capacities, and (3) vehicles capacities are not homogeneous. Also, when deliveries and pickups need to be made within specified time windows, the clustering procedure may not effectively handle timing restrictions because the aggregation of customers and vendors is separate from the sequencing of deliveries and pickups.(15) Nevertheless, to determine the capacitated clusters, we chose the minimum variance method for hierarchical clustering proposed by Ward(16) for the following reasons. First, the hierarchical method is straightforward to use because it is easily accessible to powerful computer software packages such as SAS,(17) and more importantly is based on a conceptually simple rule of how to search a similarity (proximity) matrix and when to combine different entities.(18) Due to this simplicity, the statistical capacitated clustering method is more computationally efficient in solving large-sized (with over 100 stops) problems than the mathematical programming based clustering method.(19) Second, in the VRP context, the number of clusters is equivalent to the number of vehicles required, i.e., fleet size, since one vehicle services each cluster. While the nonhierarchical (partitioning) clustering method requires the user to specify the number of clusters, the hierarchical clustering method does not.(20) Consequently, a hierarchical clustering method was selected over the nonhierarchical clustering methods to permit the simultaneous determinations of clusters and fleet size. Third, among various hierarchical clustering methods such as single linkage, complete linkage, average linkage, and Ward's minimum variance methods, we chose Ward's method because numerous experimental studies(21) have shown that Ward's method generally outperforms other hierarchical methods in terms of solution accuracy. Unlike others, Ward's method usually generates a near-optimal grouping of entities into clusters.(22) Finally, the method tends to create clusters of relatively equal size.(23) In the VRP context, equal sizes of clusters are desirable since we, as do most VRP studies (see Table 1), assume equal capacities of vehicles. None of the existing clustering methods was designed to generate capacitated clusters; thus, we have refined Ward's method to do so by aggregating customers into clusters with a restricted size that is equal to the vehicle capacity. This is accomplished by treating each customer as if it contains as many observations as its demand requirement. For instance, if a customer demands ten units of goods, then the customer would be treated as an object or entity with ten observations. The execution of this part of phase one yields capacitated clusters of deliveries and pickup nodes. Each such cluster represents either a truck load of deliveries or pickups for backhaul. ASSIGNMENT OF CUSTOMER AND VENDOR CLUSTERS TO DEPOTS AND ROUTES Once the clusters of customers and vendors are determined, the next decision to be made is which depots and routes should serve which customer and vendor clusters. The routes are, in fact, aggregated routes that describe the depot, customer cluster, and vendor cluster visited by a vehicle. The first phase yields m customers and n vendor clusters. The assignment phase now assigns these clusters to depots and to routes via the following integer program. (Equations (1,2,3,4,5) omitted) In order to solve this problem, one must define all of the possible routes X sub ijk . These include routes traveling only to customers as well as trips consisting solely of pickups at vendors. Note, if i = 0, then X sub ojk represents the route from depot k to vendor j and back to depot k. That is, the route is a pickup route only. If j = 0, then X sub iok represents the route from depot k to customer i and back to depot k. That is, the route is a delivery route only. The variable X sub ook is not defined for any k since it includes neither a customer nor a vendor cluster. The objective function (1) minimizes the total distance of the aggregated routes. Constraint set (2) ensures that each vendor cluster is on exactly one route. As a result of (2) and (3), each of the clusters will be assigned to one, and only one, depot. Because the clusters are capacitated (i.e., not exceeding a truck capacity) each route from a depot will require exactly one vehicle to be assigned to that depot. Consequently, constraint set (4) serves as a capacity constraint on the number of vehicles that can be assigned to each depot. As will be discussed later, these depot capacity constraints may take any one of several forms. The key to this formulation is the definition of the potential routes, X sub ijk . It has been assumed, because of the capacitated nature of the customer and vendor cluster, that each vehicle route may include at most, one customer and one vendor cluster. It is also assumed that no vehicle route will include more than one depot. Consequently, the maximum number of X sub ijk potential routes that must be identified is k(m + n + mn), where k equals the number of depots, m equals the number of customer clusters, and n equals the number of vendor clusters. The problem size may be reduced if some of these potential routes may be eliminated as nonsensical or inappropriate. The depot capacity constraint (4) may take several forms. As written, it constrains the total number of vehicles visiting a depot. It may be more appropriate to constrain the number of delivery or pickup loads that are assigned to a depot. This could be accomplished by replacing constraint set (4) with the following constraints. (Equations (4a,4b) omitted) Constraint sets (4), (4a) and (4b) define depot capacity in terms of vehicles. Alternatively, it may be desirable to define these capacities in terms of units of goods hauled. This can be accomplished by replacing constraint set (4) with either constraint set (4c) or constraint sets (4d) and (4e), given below. (Equations (4c,4d,4e) omitted) Constraint set (4c) is similar to (4), and (4d) and (4e) are similar to (4a) and (4b) except that capacity is measured in truckloads in (4), (4a) and (4b), and in units of goods in (4c), (4d), and (4e). DESIGN OR INDIVIDUAL VEHICLE ROUTES Given the output of phase 2, one must now determine the actual vehicle tours for each aggregated route selected in the previous stage. The original VRPB with multiple vehicles is now decomposed into a series of single traveling salesman-type subproblems since (1) there is no longer a need to determine which vehicles should serve which demand nodes and (2) the individual tours are designed not to exceed the vehicle capacity. The remaining task, then, is to construct a tour for each vehicle through its assigned cluster(s). This disaggregate tour building procedure involves solving a series of modified traveling salesman problems (TSPs). These are similar to the standard TSP in that they require the vehicle eventually return to its home base. However, these problems, unlike the traditional TSP, require precedence restrictions that allow visits to pickup nodes only after all the delivery nodes have been visited. From now on, these problems are referred to as "individual VRPB's." The individual VRPB's can be solved by using the following procedure: * First, the individual VRPB is converted to an asymmetric TSP by assigning an arbitrarily large number to arcs starting from a pickup node and ending at a delivery node. These arbitrary weights will prohibit the tour traversing from a pickup node to a delivery node. Since the resulting tour will collect pickups and deliveries at opposite ends of the tour and the tour is essentially undirected, we are indifferent as to whether the model puts pickups or deliveries "first" as we can always reverse the direction of the tour. * Second, this series of asymmetric TSP's is solved by Little et al.'s branch and bound algorithm.(24) Although any other exact branch and bound algorithm for realistic-size TSP's may be used, the Little et al.'s algorithm is chosen here because it was designed for an asymmetric TSP and the computer code based on such an exact algorithm was the only one available to us. While this step requires solving the NP-complete (inherently difficult) TSP, the number of nodes in each of these problems is generally small because their total demands are no more than twice the vehicle's capacity. For example, in the real-world problem solved in the next section, the average number of nodes in these problems was 11.5, and the greatest number of nodes was 20. HEURISTIC MODEL APPLICATION AND RESULTS In this section we demonstrate the proposed heuristic procedures with a realistically sized problem. The problem is based upon actual data generously supplied by the transportation division of a large U.S. company. The data has been slightly altered to ensure confidentiality. PROBLEM DESCRIPTION A transportation division of a manufacturing company that produces and sells hardware items is responsible for delivering these goods from three distribution centers to 134 customers scattered among seven contiguous states. In addition to the delivery operations, the transportation division often sends its private carriers to pick up a variety of raw materials from 27 vendors located in nine states. Among these, five states contain both customers and vendors. Input data for the problem is given in the Appendix. (Appendix omitted) For simplicity, the travel distances, d sub ij , were represented by the Euclidean distance between node i and j. The supply and demand data are recorded in units of product. Vehicle capacity was set at 850 product units. MODEL OUTPUTS AND COMPUTATIONAL RESULTS The solution procedure described earlier for the VRPB generates the following information: (1) the fleet size at each depot, (2) the specific amount of each product to be delivered by each vehicle, (3) the delivery routes, (4) the backhaul routes, and (5) the total travel distance of each vehicle. AGGREGATION PHASE. The first step as to generate capacitated clusters of customers and vendors by conducting statistical cluster analysis. This was accomplished using Ward's minimum variance cluster analysis. A SAS program was written and executed on a Digital VAX-11/780 computer system. The execution times for generating the capacitated customer and vendor clusters were 7 and 4 CPU seconds, respectively. Table 2 shows the 14 capacitated customer clusters which represent the 134 customers. (Table 2 omitted) Table 3 lists the 13 capacitated vendor clusters which include the original 27 vendors.(Table 3 omitted) AGGREGATE TOUR BU ILDING PHASE. The second step of the heuristic is to design the aggregate routes. This is accomplished by solving the integer program, (1)-(5). The possible routes, X sub ijk , were determined using the customer and vendor clusters generated in the previous stage. In total, there were 627 of these variables. The centroids of the clusters were used to determine the intercluster distances. The centroid of each cluster was obtained using the MacQueen's k-means partitioning procedure.(25) The obtained centroids are given in Tables 2 and 3. These centroid coordinates were used to generate the aggregate tours by solving the formulation presented in section 4.2. Although the formulation has binary integer restrictions, (5), for the decision variables, the problem yielded pure integer solutions when it was solved as a continuous linear program by relaxing these restrictions because its formulation is quite similar to an assignment problem formulation. Constraint set (4) was employed as the depot capacity constraint with T sub k = 6, for all k. The solution of this problem required 5.22 CPU seconds using Marstern's XMP mathematical programming package(26) on a VAX-11/780 computer system. The aggregate tour building phase yielded 15 tours (and therefore, 15 vehicles) with 6 vehicles assigned to depots 1 and 2, and 3 vehicles assigned to depot 3. The aggregate tours are shown in Figure 1.(Figure 1 omitted) Twelve of the routes included customer and vendor clusters, two routes consisted only of customers and one route consisted only of vendors. DISAGGREGATE TOUR BUILDING PHASE. As noted earlier, the aggregate tours were generated by considering the centroid of each customer and vendor cluster as a single node. Now, the detailed route for customers and vendors within each cluster must be determined. These routes are determined in the disaggregate tour building procedure which involves solving a series of traveling salesman problems. The individual tours are shown in Table 4.(Table 4 omitted) Computational experience for the disaggregate tour building procedure also is summarized in Table 5.(Table 5 omitted) In addition, as an example, the individual vehicle tours for D.C. 1 are shown in Figure 2.(Figure 2 omitted) Optimal solutions were obtained for all individual tour design subproblems by using the FORTRAN code in Phillips and Garcia-Diaz.(27) We used this code because it is readily available. This package was written to solve any of several network problems. Consequently, a code written specifically for this problem and based upon a more efficient algorithm such as the one presented in Carpaneto and Toth(28) could undoubtedly reduce solution times. As stated earlier, the number of nodes in each individual tour will generally not be very large due to the vehicle capacities. The asymmetric TSP algorithm in Carpaneto and Toth is capable of solving problems with up to 240 nodes efficiently. SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS In the aftermath of transportation deregulation, logisticians have been interested in reducing transportation costs by carrying freight on return trips, i.e., backhauling. Specifically, the problem of interest in this research is the routing of multiple vehicles from multiple depots to deliver goods to various customers. After a vehicle has delivered its goods, it may then pick up goods from vendors on its return to the depot. The proposed procedure determines the fleet size needed; the allocation of vehicles, customers, and vendors to the various depots; and the specific routes of the individual vehicles. All of these determinations are constrained by the vehicle and depot capacity. A solution methodology is proposed that decomposes the problem into three main phases where the output of one phase becomes the input to the next phase. The first phase aggregates customers and vendors to capacitated clusters. During this phase, customers and vendors are combined into truck load sized groupings using a new capacitated clustering technique. The resulting customer and vendor clusters have a capacity equal to a single vehicle's capacity. Consequently, each cluster will require exactly one vehicle. The second phase designs aggregated routes and assigns customer and vendor clusters to depots via a zero-one integer program. In the example, this model solved easily in its linear programming relaxed form. Due to the capacitated nature of clusters, each route includes at most, one customer and one vendor. Therefore, this model never produces subtours. The final phase designs the individual routes through the clusters and requires solving a series of asymmetric traveling salesman problems (ATSPs). By manipulating the distance matrix, each ATSP first routes the vehicle through the nodes in the customer cluster and then through the nodes in the vendor cluster. This subproblem can be readily solved with existing ATSP algorithms. The reasons may be: (1) we can ignore capacity constraints because no customer or vendor cluster exceeds vehicle capacity, and (2) the number of customer and vendor nodes in the cluster is generally not very large because of the capacity restrictions. The proposed methodology was demonstrated on a problem consisting of three depots, 134 customer nodes, and 24 vendor nodes. The data for this problem came from an actual distribution system. The solution for the entire problem required a total of 130.22 CPU seconds on a VAX-11/780 computer system. The capacitated depot solution consisted of a total of 15 tours from three depots. Twelve of these tours included both deliveries and pickups (backhauls), two included deliveries only, and one consisted solely of pickups. The results presented here clearly demonstrate that the proposed methodology can solve practical size multi-depot multi-vehicle routing problems that incorporate both vehicle and distribution center capacities as well as backhauling. Obviously, however, there are additional areas for continued research. Examples of these are: 1. Future study should relax the assumptions of deterministic demands and supplies, as well as uniform vehicle capacity. 2. The extension of the VRPB should consider cost differentials associated with the employment of private versus common carriers. 3. Temporal factors can be added to the current study by including timing constraints in the form of both soft and hard time windows. 4. To broaden the applicability of the model to more practical settings, future backhauling research should consider the situation where the backhauling of certain materials is strictly restricted to certain trucks due to potential health hazards. 5. The basic structure of the VRPB model can be extended to include the possibility of a simultaneous delivery and pickup at the same stop. AUTHORS' NOTE: We would like to thank Dr. Kevin Bott and Mr. Syamal Roy of Logistics Resources, Inc., for their professional support and valuable insights into the practical aspect of the study. We also reserve special thanks to Mr. Warren S. Sarle of SAS Institute, Inc., for his technical assistance. (1) J. T. Mentzer, "Determining Motor Carrier Backhaul Markets," Industrial Marketing Management 15 (1986): 237-243. (2) ICC News, "Temporary Rules to Reduce the Number of Empty Truck Miles Proposed," Traffic World (January 1980): 77-81. (3) NCPDM, Measuring and Improving Productivity in Physical Distribution (Chicago, Ill.: A. T. Kearney, Inc., 1981). (4) R. H. Ballou and M. Chowdhury, "MSVS: An Extended Computer Model for Transport Mode Selection," Logistics and Transportation Review 16, no. 4 (1980): 325-338. (5) W. C. Jordan and L. D. Burns, "Truck Backhauling on Two Terminal Networks," Transportation Research B 18, no. 6 (1984): 487-503. (6) W. C. Jordan, "Truck Backhauling on Networks with Many Terminals," Transportation Research B 21, no. 3 (1987): 183-193. (7) C. A. Yano, T. J. Chan, L. K. Richter, T. Cutler, K. G. Marty, and D. McGettigan, "Vehicle Routing at Quality Store," Interfaces 17, no. 2 (1987): 52-63. (8) D. O. Casco, B. L. Golden, and E. A. Wasil, "Vehicle Routing with Backhauls: Models, Algorithms, and Case Studies," in B. L. Golden and A. A. Assad, eds., Vehicle Routing: Methods and Studies (North-Holland: Elsevier Science Publishers B.U., 1988), pp. 127-147. (9) G. Clarke and J. W. Wright, "Scheduling of Vehicles From a Central Depot to a Number of Delivery points," Operations Research 12 (1964): 568-581. (10) D. R. Rosenkrantz, R. Sterns, and P. Lewis, "An Analysis of Several Heuristics for the Traveling Salesman Problem," SIAM Journal on Computing 6 (1977): 563-581. (11) Same reference as Note 6. (12) B. Golden, M. Ball, and L. Bodin, "Current and Future Research Directions in Network Optimization," Computers and Operations Research 8 (1981): 71-81. (13) R. H. Ballou and Y. K. Agarwal, "A Performance Comparison of Several Popular Algorithms for Vehicle Routing and Scheduling," Journal of Business Logistics 9, no. 1 (1988): 51-65; R. H. Ballou, "A Continued Comparison of Several Popular Algorithms for Vehicle Routing and Scheduling," Journal of Business Logistics 11, no. 1 (1990): 111-126; F. H. Cullen, J. J. Jarvis, and H. D. Ratliff, 'Set Partitioning Based Heuristics for Interactive Routing," Networks 11, no. 2 (1981): 125-143; S. R. Evans and J. P. Norback, "An Heuristic Method for Solving Time-Sensitive Routing Problems," Journal of Operational Research Society 35, no. 5 (1984): 407-414; M. Fisher and R. Jaikumar, "A Generalized Assignment Heuristic for Vehicle Routing," Networks 11, no. 2 (1981): 109-124; P. Krolak, W. Felts, and J. Nelson, "A Man-Machine Approach Toward Solving the Generalized Truck-Dispatching Problem," Transportation Science 6 (1972): 149-170; B. F. O'Neil and D. C. Whybark, "Vehicle Routing From Central Facilities," International Journal of Physical Distribution 2 (1972): 93-97. (14) Same reference as Note 13, Cullen et al. (15) Same reference as Note 13, Ballou and Agarwal, and Ballou. (16) J. H. Ward, Jr., "Hierarchical Grouping to Optimize an Objective Function," Journal of American Statistical Associations 58, no. 301 (1963): 236-244. (17) SAS User's Guide: Statistics, Version 5 Edition (Carey, N.C.: SAS Institute Inc. , 1985). (18) M. S. Aldenderfer and R. K. Blashfield, Cluster Analysis (Beverly Hills, Calif.: Sage Publications, Inc., 1984). (19) J. M. Mulvey and M. P. Beck, "Solving Capacitated Clustering Problems," European Journal of Operational Research 18 (1984): 339-348. (20) M. R. Anderberg, Cluster Analysis for Applications (New York: Academic Press, Inc., 1973). (21) R. K. Blashfield, "Mixture Model Tests of Cluster Analysis: Accuracy of Four Hierarchical Methods," Psychological Bulletin 83 (1976): 377-388; C. Edelbrock, "Comparing Accuracy of Hierarchical Clustering Algorithm: The Problem of Classifying Everybody," Multivariate Behavioral Research 14 (1979): 367-384. (22) H. C. Romesburg, Cluster Analysis for Researchers (Belmont, Calif.: Lifetime Learning Publications, 1984). (23) Same reference as Note 18. (24) J. D. C. Little, V. G. Murty, D. W. Sweeney, and C. Karel, "An Algorithm for the Traveling Salesman Problem," Operations Research 11 (1963): 972-989. (25) J. B. MacQueen, "Some Methods for Classification and Analysis of Multivariate Observations," Proceedings of the Fifth Berkeley Symposium on Mathematical Statistics and Probability 1 (1967): 281-297. (26) R. E. Marsten, "The Design of the XMP Linear Programming Library," Transactions on Mathematical Software 7 (1981): 481-497. (27) D. T. Phillips and A. Garcia-Diaz, Fundamentals of Network Analysis (Englewood Cliffs, N.J.: Prentice-Hall, 1981). (28) G. Carpaneto and P. Toth, "Some New Branching and Bounding Criteria for the Asymmetric Traveling Salesman Problem," Management Science 26, no. 7 (1980): 736-743. ABOUT THE AUTHORS Hokey Min is assistant professor of operations and logistics management in the College of Business Administration at Northeastern University. He holds a B.A. from Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, an MBA in production management from Yonsei University, an M.S. in Management Science from the University of South Carolina , and an M.A. and Ph.D. in Management Science from Ohio State University . His research interests include international logistics, materials and purchasing management, international operations management, multiple criteria decision making, and decision support systems. John Current is associate professor of management sciences at Ohio State University . He received a B.A. in political science from DePaw University, and M.S. in urban planning and Ph.D. in geography and environment engineering from Johns Hopkins University . His primary research interests are in the areas of multi-objective programming, location analysis, and network design. He has worked on research projects on power plant siting and the location of away-from-reactor storage facilities for spent nuclear fuel. David Schilling is professor and chairperson of management sciences at Ohio State University . He received a Ph.D. in system analysis/operations research from Johns Hopkins University . His research interests include facility location analysis, management information systems, multi-criteria decision making, model-based decision support systems, and group decision making.