Password: This research applies the meta-heuristic method of ant colony optimization (ACO) to an established set of vehicle routing problems (VRP). The procedure simulates the decision-making processes of ant colonies as they forage for food and is similar to other adaptive learning and artificial intelligence techniques such as Tabu Search, Simulated Annealing and Genetic Algorithms. Modifications are made to the ACO algorithm used to solve the traditional traveling salesman problem in order to allow the search of the multiple routes of the VRP. Experimentation shows that the algorithm is successful in finding solutions within 1% of known optimal solutions and the use of multiple ant colonies is found to provide a comparatively competitive solution technique especially for larger problems. Additionally, the size of the candidate lists used within the algorithm is a significant factor in finding improved solutions, and the computational times for the algorithm compare favorably with other solution methods. Keywords Ant colony optimization ; Vehicle routing ; Vehicle scheduling ; Combinatorial optimization ; Heuristics ; Optimization 1. Introduction Finding efficient vehicle routes is an important logistics problem which has been studied for several decades. When a firm is able to reduce the length of its delivery routes or is able to decrease its number of vehicles, it is able to provide better service to its customers, operate in a more efficient manner and possibly increase its market share. A typical vehicle routing problem includes simultaneously determining the routes for several vehicles from a central supply depot to a number of customers and returning to the depot without exceeding the capacity constraints of each vehicle. This problem is of economic importance to businesses because of the time and costs associated with providing a fleet of delivery vehicles to transport products to a set of geographically dispersed customers. Additionally, such problems are also significant in the public sector where vehicle routes must be determined for bus systems, postal carriers, and other public service vehicles. In each of these instances, the problem typically involves finding the minimum cost of the combined routes for a number of vehicles in order to facilitate delivery from a supply location to a number of customer locations. Since cost is closely associated with distance, a company might attempt to find the minimum distance traveled by a number of vehicles in order to satisfy its customer demand. In doing so, the firm attempts to minimize costs while increasing or at least maintaining an expected level of customer service. The process of selecting vehicle routes allows the selection of any combination of customers in determining the delivery route for each vehicle. Therefore, the vehicle routing problem is a combinatorial optimization problem where the number of feasible solutions for the problem increases exponentially with the number of customers to be serviced. In addition, the vehicle routing problem is closely related to the traveling salesman problem where an out and back tour from a central location is determined for each vehicle. Since there is no known polynomial algorithm that will find the optimal solution in every instance, the vehicle routing problem is considered NP-hard. For such problems, the use of heuristics is considered a reasonable approach in finding solutions and this paper uses an ant colony optimization (ACO) approach to find solutions to the vehicle routing problem (VRP). ACO simulates the behavior of ant colonies in nature as they forage for food and find the most efficient routes from their nests to food sources. The decision making processes of ants are embedded in the artificial intelligence algorithm of a group of virtual ants which are used to provide solutions to the vehicle routing problem. This approach is relevant because it provides solutions to an important problem in transportation science and the experimental results indicate that the performance of the technique is competitive with other techniques used to generate solutions to the VRP. 2. Vehicle routing problem The vehicle routing problem has been an important problem in the field of distribution and logistics since at least the early 1960s [1] . It is described as finding the minimum distance or cost of the combined routes of a number of vehicles m that must service a number of customers n . Mathematically, this system is described as a weighted graph G =( V , A , d ) where the vertices are represented by V ={ v 0 , v 1 ,…, v n }, and the arcs are represented by A ={( v i , v j ): i ≠ j }. A central depot where each vehicle starts its route is located at v 0 and each of the other vertices represents the n customers. The distances associated with each arc are represented by the variable d ij which is measured using Euclidean computations. Each customer is assigned a non-negative demand q i , and each vehicle is given a capacity constraint, Q . The problem is solved under the following constraints. • Each customer is visited only once by a single vehicle. • Each vehicle must start and end its route at the depot, v 0 . • Total demand serviced by each vehicle cannot exceed Q . Additionally, the problem may be distance constrained by defining a maximum route length, L m , which each vehicle may not exceed. This maximum route length includes a service distance δ (translated from service time) for each customer on the route. An example of a single solution consisting of a set of routes constructed for a typical vehicle routing problem is presented in Fig. 1 , where m =3, n =10. The VRP studied here is symmetrical where d ij = d ji for all i and j . Fig. 1.  A vast amount of research has been accomplished on the vehicle routing problem [2]  and  [3] including advanced meta-heuristic approaches such as Tabu Search [4] , [5]  and  [6] and Simulated Annealing [7] . A limited amount of research addressing the vehicle routing problem has used ACO with candidate lists and ranking techniques to improve the ability of a single ant colony to solve the VRP [8]  and  [9] . The research in this paper uses multiple ant colonies and experiments with different candidate list sizes in order to improve the ability of ACO to solve known instances of the VRP. 3. Ant colony optimization Ant colony optimization is a part of the larger field of swarm intelligence in which scientists study the behavior patterns of bees, termites, ants and other social insects in order to simulate processes. The ability of insect swarms to thrive in nature and solve complex survival tasks appeals to scientists developing computer algorithms needed to solve similarly complex problems. Artificial intelligence algorithms such as ant colony optimization are applied to large combinatorial optimization problems and are used to create self-organizing methods for such problems. Ant colony optimization is a meta-heuristic technique that uses artificial ants to find solutions to combinatorial optimization problems. ACO is based on the behavior of real ants and possesses enhanced abilities such as memory of past actions and knowledge about the distance to other locations. In nature, an individual ant is unable to communicate or effectively hunt for food, but as a group, ants possess the ability to solve complex problems and successfully find and collect food for their colony. Ants communicate using a chemical substance called pheromone. As an ant travels, it deposits a constant amount of pheromone that other ants can follow. Each ant moves in a somewhat random fashion, but when an ant encounters a pheromone trail, it must decide whether to follow it. If it follows the trail, the ant's own pheromone reinforces the existing trail, and the increase in pheromone increases the probability of the next ant selecting the path. Therefore, the more ants that travel on a path, the more attractive the path becomes for subsequent ants. Additionally, an ant using a short route to a food source will return to the nest sooner and therefore, mark its path twice, before other ants return. This directly influences the selection probability for the next ant leaving the nest. Over time, as more ants are able to complete the shorter route, pheromone accumulates faster on shorter paths and longer paths are less reinforced. The evaporation of pheromone also makes less desirable routes more difficult to detect and further decreases their use. However, the continued random selection of paths by individual ants helps the colony discover alternate routes and insures successful navigation around obstacles that interrupt a route. Trail selection by ants is a pseudo-random proportional process and is a key element of the simulation algorithm of ant colony optimization [10] . Detailed descriptions of ant behavior relating to ACO are found in [11]  and  [12] .