Password: The vehicle routing problem with simultaneous pick-up and deliveries, which considers simultaneous distribution and collection of goods to/from customers, is an extension of the capacitated vehicle routing problem. There are various real cases, where fleet of vehicles originated in a depot serves customers with pick-up and deliveries from/to their locations. Increasing importance of reverse logistics activities make it necessary to determine efficient and effective vehicle routes for simultaneous pick-up and delivery activities. The vehicle routing problem with simultaneous pick-up and deliveries is also NP-hard as a capacitated vehicle routing problem and this study proposes a genetic algorithm based approach to this problem. Computational example is presented with parameter settings in order to illustrate the proposed approach. Moreover, performance of the proposed approach is evaluated by solving several test problems. ► We consider the vehicle routing problem with simultaneous pick-up and deliveries. ► A genetic algorithm based approach is developed. ► Computational experiments are conducted for evaluating the performance of the new approach. ► Genetic algorithm based approach performs well in the computational study. Keywords Genetic algorithms ; Reverse logistics ; Vehicle routing problem with simultaneous pick-up and deliveries 1. Introduction The vehicle routing problem (VRP) was first introduced by Dantzig and Ramser (1959) . The problem is concerned with delivering goods to a set of customers with known demands through vehicle routes that begin and finish at the depot with minimum cost. Capacitated vehicle routing problem (CVRP) is the most elementary version of the VRP and seeks a number of routes for m number of vehicles with Q units homogenous capacity to minimize total transportation cost of routes while satisfying the delivery demands of n number of customer nodes. Each route has to start and finish at the depot and each customer has to be visited exactly once by one vehicle. Details on VRP and its variants with formulation, and solution methods can be found in Toth and Vigo (2001) . There are various real cases, where customers require simultaneous pick-up of goods from their location in addition to delivery of goods to their location and a fleet of vehicles originated in a depot serves customers with pick-up and deliveries from/to their locations. Increasing importance of reverse logistics activities make it necessary to determine efficient and effective vehicle routes for simultaneous pick-up and delivery activities. The vehicle routing problem with simultaneous pick-up and deliveries (VRP-SPD), which considers simultaneous distribution and collection of goods to/from customers, is an extension of the CVRP. In a broader perspective, the VRP can be considered as a combination of the bin packing problem (BPP) and the travelling salesman problem (TSP). Both BPP and TSP are NP-hard problems ( Falkenauer, 1996  and  Wolsey, 1998 ); thus VRP and its variant VRP-SPD are also NP-hard. During the last few decades, the importance of reverse logistics has shown a rapid increase due to the environmental and economical issues as well as legal obligations. One of the most critical issues that affect the performance of the reverse logistics is the routing of vehicles. However, efficient and effective vehicle routing requires high computational efforts. Increasing importance of reverse logistics activities and the computational complexity of VRP-SPD motivates this study. The purpose of this study is to introduce an alternative approach to solve VRP-SPD. More specifically, this study proposes a genetic algorithm (GA) based approach, which uses permutation based representation and ensures feasibility, for solving VRP-SPD more efficiently and effectively. In order to evaluate the performance of the developed GA based approach, several test problems from the literature are formulated as mixed integer linear programming (MILP) models. Results of the MILP solver are compared with the solution provided by the developed approach. The rest of the paper is organized as follows; in Section 2 , mathematical formulation and details of VRP-SPD are presented. In Section 3 , the details of the proposed approach is introduced. An illustrative example is given in Section 4 . The performance of the proposed approach is evaluated with several test problems and the results are discussed in Section 5 . Finally, Section 6 concludes the paper with future directions. 2. Vehicle routing problem with simultaneous pick-up and deliveries In VRP-SPD customers require simultaneous pick-up of goods from their location in addition to delivery of goods to their location as illustrated in Fig. 1 . In Fig. 1 , red dots represent customer nodes while blue rectangle represents the depot; red arrows represent deliveries; green arrows represent pick-ups in customer nodes; solid lines are the arcs between nodes. A number of routes are sought for v number of vehicles with C units homogenous capacity, that minimize the total transportation cost of routes while satisfying the pick-up and delivery demands of the m number of customer nodes simultaneously. Each vehicle has to depart and return to the depot and each customer node has to be visited exactly once by one vehicle. Fig. 1.  Illustration of VRP-SPD. (For interpretation of the references to color in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.) VRP-SPD was introduced into the literature by Min (1989) . His study considered distribution problem of a public library with 22 branch libraries and 2 vehicles based on the central library. Vehicles serve branch libraries everyday with deliveries and pick-ups at each branch library. Vehicle routes were determined by a solution approach that based on clustering customers according to their demands and vehicle capacities first, and then solving TSP for each cluster. While determining routes for each cluster, an iterative procedure was used in order to satisfy the feasibility of the route. Dethloff (2001) emphasized the importance of VRP-SPD for reverse logistics activities and he investigated the relation between VRP-SPD and other types of routing problems. He proposed a mathematical formulation for this problem and developed an insertion based heuristic, which uses several insertion criteria. Nagy and Salhi (2005) also proposed insertion based heuristics in order to solve VRP-SPD. The basic steps of these heuristics are constructing partial routes for a set of customers, and then inserting the remaining customers to the existing route. They introduced the concepts of weak and strong feasibility and their proposed approach allowed infeasibilities to occur while searching towards strong feasibility. The proposed algorithm was extended to deal with problems with multiple depots. The vehicle routing problem with backhauls (VRP-B) is another extension of the VRP and considers both delivery and pick-ups like VRP-SPD. In the VRP-B, pick-up demands are met after finishing all delivery. VRP-B can be thought as a two separate CVRP problems; CVRP for the delivery customers and CVRP for the pickup (backhaul) customers. There are several studies related to VRP-B in the literature (e.g. Liu and Chung, 2009  and  Ropke and Pisinger, 2006 ). The simultaneous delivery and pick-up activities of VRP-SPD make this problem more difficult than VRP-B to solve. Additionally, feasibility issue is more complex in VRP-SPD. Recently, Gajpal and Abad (2009) applied ant colony optimization to VRP-SPD. Ai and Kachitvichyanukul (2009) proposed a particle swarm optimization for VRP-SPD with random key based representation. Zachariadis, Tarantilis, and Kiranoudis (2010) developed an adaptive memory methodology for this routing problem. In the following sections, VRP-SPD is formulated as a MILP model based on model given by Dethloff (2001) . J 0 : Set of all nodes including depot. V : Set of vehicles.