Password: An algorithm for the distribution of fresh vegetables in which the perishability represents a critical factor was developed. This particular problem was formulated as a vehicle routing problem with time windows and time-dependent travel-times (VRPTWTD) where the travel-times between two locations depends on both the distance and on the time of the day. The model considers the impact of the perishability as part of the overall distribution costs and a heuristic approach, based on the tabu search is used to solve the problem. The performance of the algorithm was verified using modified Solomon’s problems. Using parameters typical of the Slovenian food market, different schedules were achieved, giving improvements of up to 47% reduction in perished goods. Keywords Vehicle routing problem ; Distribution ; Perishable food ; Time-dependent ; Loss of quality Notations N i number of the customers for vehicle i C ji load transported by the vehicle i on the path between the customer j and the customer j  + 1 Travel-time j ( j +1) time spent by vehicle i between the start of servicing of customer j and the start of the servicing of customer ( j  + 1) S i k arrival time of vehicle k at customer i DelayedCostFactor i cost for a minute of lateness defined for customer i NV number of vehicles Distance i distance in km traveled by the vehicle i Time i time in minutes that the vehicle i spend on the route Penalty i time of delay in minutes that the vehicle i accumulate on the route and calculated as in (2) Load×Time i loss of quality at vehicle i , calculated as in (1) k 1 , k 2 , k 3 and k 4 parameters that represent the weight of each part of the total cost. 1. Introduction The difficulty in preserving the nutritional characteristics of fresh food-stuffs during transportation presents a direct problem to food distributors where the perishability of the produce requires it to be handled in ways not necessarily conducive to the traditional view of cost effective distribution activities. Fresh vegetables provide a representative example of perishable goods; the nutrition value and taste are at their best directly after harvesting, decreasing as time elapses until the food is spoilt. In the Slovenian market, a quick distribution of fresh vegetables is required since, of the approximately 151,571,000 kg of fresh vegetables consumed per year, between 50% and 70% are imported, mainly from Italy and Spain. When they arrive in Slovenia, they are first delivered to the distribution centers and then distributed to the final consumers who can acquire the product in optimal conditions only 48 h after the harvesting. In the transportation of vegetables insulated vehicles are used for international transportation and non-insulated vehicles for the final distribution. A detailed description of the vegetables consumed, the typical quantities and the distribution process are presented in Vadnal and Bratuša, 2002  and  Križaj, 2002 and Knavs (2003) . To measure the decrease in the value of a load of fresh vegetables, we define the “quality” of the load. The quality is 100% when the load can be sold entirely at the current market price and the quality is 0% when the load has lost its commercial value. The loss of quality in the transportation of the vegetables represents a significant cost for the companies. By Slovenian law, the recognized value of the loss is 8%, but occasionally the loss can be higher and have been reported by transportation companies as up to 23% ( Križaj, 2002 ). Goods-distribution companies try to reduce basic distribution costs based on the number of vehicles used, total distance-traveled and the total travel-time. The standard view is that in addressing basic distribution issues distributors also indirectly reduce the loss of quality. In this paper, we present a model for the representation of the loss of quality and consider it as part of the overall distribution costs. We model the distribution problem between the distribution centers and the customers (retailers) as a vehicle routing problem with time windows and with time-dependent travel-times (VRPTWTD) where the travel-times between two locations depends on both the distance and on the time of day. To minimize the overall distribution cost, the objective function must not only model the number of vehicles, the total distance-traveled and the total travel-time, but additionally the loss of quality of the load. 2. Literature review Different methods have been developed to solve the vehicle routing problem (VRP) and vehicle routing problem with time windows (VRPTW). The routes should be chosen to minimize the total distribution cost. A detailed description of these and other related problems including a literature review of the methods are provided in Toth and Vigo (2002) . In the VRPTW we know the location, the demand and the delivery window (the earliest and latest time that the customer is able to accept the load) of each customer. The solution is presented by one or more routes, each associated to one vehicle (a route begins at the depot, traverses a subset of customers in a specified sequence and returns to the depot). Each customer must be assigned only to one vehicle and the load must not exceed the vehicle capacity. Various works address the transportation of food-stuffs, dealing with pertinent issues to our problem. Tarantilis and Kiranoudis (2001) analyzed the distribution of the fresh milk. They formulated the problem as a heterogenous fixed fleet vehicle routing problem; this is a VRP with vehicles that have different capacity. A threshold-accepting based algorithm was developed aiming to satisfy the distribution needs of the company, allowing them to schedule their distribution many times a week. Tarantilis and Kiranoudis (2002) presented a real-life distribution problem of fresh meat in an area of the city of Athens. They formulated the problem as an open multi-depot vehicle routing problem. They presented a new stochastic search meta-heuristic algorithm belonging to the class of threshold-accepting algorithms. Hwang (1999) presented an effective distribution model for determining optimal patterns of food supply and inventory allocation for famine relief areas. He modeled a VRP that incorporated inventory allocation and optimal distribution based on minimizing the deprivation and starving instead of travel distance or time. Prindezis, Kiranoudis, and Marinos-Kouris (2003) presented an application service provider, to be used for central food markets, which coordinates and disseminates tasks and related information for solving the VRP. For the solution of the VRP they used a meta-heuristic technique based on the tabu search. They tailored their software to the road network of Athens and applied it to the integrated-logistics problem of deliveries to the 690 retail companies that comprise the Athens Central Food Market. They used a two-phase algorithm to solve the VRP. In the first phase, a route construction algorithm was used and in the second phase a tabu search was used to improve the given solution. Faulin (2003) presented the implementation of the mixed algorithm procedure that uses heuristic and exact subroutines in the solution of a VRP having specific constraints related to companies in the agribusiness field. In all the above models, the travel-time between the customers was constant and none of them took into account the specific degradation of quality during transport. Amponsah and Salhi (2004) presented an efficient heuristic for the routing problem of the collection of garbage. They considered it as a capacitated arc routing problem (CARP) and minimize the environmental effect due to the smell of the garbage and total collection cost in a bi-objective model. In CARP the customer (garbage to be collected) is associated to the arcs and not to the nodes as in the VRP. The smell of the garbage gets worse with time and so it is necessary to remove it as early as possible, which is analogous to food deterioration. They defined inconvenience due to smell by the total quantity of garbage over time. They used a look-ahead strategy that gives the possibility to choose from a pool of solutions the one which best solves the problem. In most real-world distribution problems, it is important to consider the fluctuations of the travel-time in the solution of the problem. Travel-time plays an important role in the distribution of the perishable goods, since its fluctuations may extend the time that the goods spend on the vehicles. Different representations of the fluctuations of the travel-times between the customers have been reported and different extensions of VRP have been proposed to address the fluctuations in travel-times. Routing problems with stochastic travel-times are presented by Gendreau et al., 1996 , Fu, 2002  and  Hadjiconstantinou and Roberts, 1998 and Kenyon and Morton (2003) .