  This paper presents a parallel approach for solving the Vehicle Routing Problem with Simultaneous Pickup and Delivery (VRPSPD). The parallel algorithm is embedded with a multi-start heuristic which consists of a variable neighborhood descent procedure, with a random neighborhood ordering (RVND), integrated in an iterated local search (ILS) framework. The experiments were performed in a cluster with a multi-core architecture using up to 256 cores. The results obtained on the benchmark problems, available in the literature, show that the proposed algorithm not only improved several of the known solutions, but also presented a very satisfying scalability. Keywords Parallel computing ; Metaheuristic ; Vehicle routing ; Pickup and delivery 1. Introduction The Vehicle Routing Problem with Pickup and Delivery (VRPPD) is one of the main classes of the Vehicle Routing Problem (VRP). Among the several VRPPD variants we can cite: VRP with backhauls, VRP with mixed Pickup and Delivery; dial-a-ride problem; and the VRP with Simultaneous Pickup and Delivery (VRPSPD). In this work, we deal, particularly, with the VRPSPD. This problem arises especially in the Reverse Logistics context. Companies are increasingly faced with the task of managing the reverse flow of finished goods or raw-materials. According to de Brito and Dekker [1] one can affirm that companies get involved with Reverse Logistics because they can profit from it (economics); or they are obliged (legislation); or they feel socially impelled (corporate citizenship). The VRPSPD can be defined as follows. Let G=(V,E) G = ( V , E ) be a complete graph with a set of vertices V={0,…,n} V = { 0 , … , n } , where the vertex 0 represents the depot (V 0 ={0}) ( V 0 = { 0 } ) and the remaining ones the clients. Each edge {i,j}∈E { i , j } ∈ E has a non-negative cost c ij c ij and each client i∈V-V 0 i ∈ V - V 0 has a demand q i q i for delivery and p i p i for pickup. Let C={1,…,v} C = { 1 , … , v } be the set of homogeneous vehicles with capacity Q . The VRPSPD consists in constructing a set up to v routes in such a way that: (i) all the pickup and delivery demands are accomplished; (ii) the vehicle's capacity is not exceeded; (iii) a client is visited by only a single vehicle; (iv) the sum of costs is minimized. Since the VRPSPD is an NP-hard NP -hard problem [2] , heuristics methods have proved to be more suitable for dealing with such problem in terms of solution quality vs. computational cost. Even though there are very efficient heuristics for combinatorial optimization problems, they sometimes may have the drawbacks of lack of robustness and also consume considerable amount of time to obtain acceptable quality solutions for complex large-scale problems. Some ideas have been proposed to reduce these limitations, namely the incorporation of learning modules to increase the robustness and parallel versions to decrease the computational time without compromising the quality of the solutions. In this paper, we present a parallel algorithm based on the sequential heuristic developed by Subramanian et al. [3] . The main features of the proposed approach are the automatic calibration of some parameters and the ability of exploring the high-level of parallelism inherent to recent multi-core clusters. The automatic calibration of parameters makes our algorithm auto-adaptive, avoiding the need of manual tuning. The ability of scaling to a large number of processors allows our algorithm to take advantage of the emerging technology of multi-core architectures. These architectures are an attractive option in high performance computing, as the aggregation of a significant number of processors stimulate the construction of “superclusters” with thousands of cores. The high-degree of parallelism of our algorithm enables us to explore these kind of clusters in order to solve large-size instances of the VRPSPD.