Password: The purpose of this paper is to present a new metaheuristic, termed the backtracking adaptive threshold accepting algorithm, for solving the heterogeneous fixed fleet vehicle routing problem (HFFVRP). The HFFVRP is a variant of the classical vehicle routing problem (VRP) and has attracted much less attention in the operational research (OR) literature than the classical VRP. It involves the design of a set of minimum cost routes, originating and terminating at a depot, for a fleet with fixed number of vehicles of each type, with various capacities, and variable costs to service a set of customers with known demands. The numerical results show that the proposed algorithm is robust and efficient. New best solutions are reported over a set of published benchmark problems. Keywords Logistics ; Distribution ; Routing ; Combinatorial optimization ; Metaheuristics 1. Introduction Decisions relating to routing heterogeneous fleets of vehicles are frequently taken into consideration in logistics operations. The case most frequently studied is the one where the number of vehicles of each type is assumed to be unlimited. The research object of this paper is a variant of the vehicle routing problem (VRP) that is called heterogeneous fixed fleet VRP (HFFVRP). Specifically, the purpose of this article is to describe a threshold accepting-based method, called backtracking adaptive threshold accepting (BATA), for solving the HFFVRP. The HFFVRP is defined as follows: Let G =( N , A ) be a directed graph, where N =( u 0 , u 1 , u 2 ,…, u n ) is the node set and A ={( u i , u j ): u i , u j ∈ N , i ≠ j } is the arc set. Node u 0 represents a depot while the remaining nodes correspond to customers. Each customer u i has a non-negative demand. A fleet of heterogeneous (different types) vehicles uses the depot as a starting base. Denote by v t the variable cost per distance unit of a vehicle of type t and by Q t its carrying capacity. The number of vehicles of each type is limited ( fixed ). With each arc ( u i , u j ) is associated a distance c ij . This problem aims at determining a set of vehicle routes, each starting and ending at the depot, such that a single vehicle supplies each customer’s demand, the total demand of customers assigned to each route does not exceed the capacity of the vehicle assigned to it, and the total cost is minimized. In this paper, location of the nodes is defined by coordinates and with each arc ( u i , u j ) is associated a Euclidean distance c ij . Although the HFFVRP is certainly one of the most practical models in distribution management, it has attracted much less attention in the operational research (OR) than the capacitated VRP (CVRP) ( Laporte et al., 2000 ) and the heterogeneous VRP (HVRP) ( Gendreau et al., 1999 ). As Taillard stated in his paper ( Taillard, 1999 ), the reason is that the HFFVRP is much harder to solve than the aforementioned versions of the VRP: The most effective metaheuristics employed for solving both the CVRP ( Rochat and Taillard, 1995 ) and the HVRP ( Gendreau et al., 1999 ) use improvement heuristics operating on each vehicle route taken separately or on several routes at a time and adaptive memory procedures (AMPs). Improvement heuristics are described in terms of local search techniques based on intra- or inter-route customer exchange moves. The feasibility check or the evaluation of these moves for the CVRP is an easy task because the vehicles involved are identical. On the contrary, the feasibility check or the evaluation of a move for the HFFVRP requires finding a new assignment of the vehicles to the new solution’s routes. It is clear that this re-assignment of vehicles to routes is difficult, due to the limited (fixed) number of heterogeneous vehicles. Contrary to HFFVRP, the re-assignment problem is simple in the case of the HVRP where the number of vehicles of each type is unlimited (so each route is performed by the cheapest vehicle type with respect to capacity constraints). Taillard is the only researcher who has developed a method for solving the HFFVRP in the past ( Taillard, 1999 ). He developed a heuristic column generation method based on the adaptive memory procedure (AMP) ( Rochat and Taillard, 1995 ), which uses an embedded tabu search developed by Taillard ( Taillard, 1993 ). It’s worth mentioning that the AMP and Taillard’s tabu search are the most successful methods ever developed to solve the CVRP. This paper is organized as follows. The BATA algorithm is described in Section 2 , followed by computational results in Section 3 and by the conclusion in Section 4 . 2. The BATA algorithm BATA is a local search-based metaheuristic that belongs to the class of threshold accepting algorithms ( Dueck and Scheuer, 1990 ). The fundamental idea of this class of algorithms is to allow moves toward solutions with higher objective function values (uphill moves) in order to escape from local minima. According to a typical threshold accepting procedure, a solution s ′ is drawn randomly from the neighbourhood N ( s ) of the current solution s . Then, s ′ is accepted if c ( s ′ )− c ( s )< T h , where T h >0 is a control parameter called threshold. The threshold T h is reduced during the search process. As long as the value of T h is high, the local search performed is not goal oriented, thus achieving high diversification and low intensification of the search process. However, as the search procedure evolves and T h is reduced, the balance between diversification and intensification changes until the typical threshold accepting algorithm behaves nearly like a descending local search algorithm. The basic innovation of the BATA algorithm over the typical threshold accepting algorithm is that T h is not necessarily reduced in a monotonic fashion during the search process but also incorporates an occasional increase (backtracking) of its value. The adopting of this non-monotonic schedule, results in an oscillating strategy that achieves a dynamic balance between diversification and intensification of the search process. As it is described in Fig. 1 , the outer loop of BATA represents the threshold adjustment control mechanism (reduction or backtracking of its value) where in every outer loop iteration the value of T h is adjusted with respect to its previous value. In addition, the inner loop is the local search performing procedure in which BATA employs a blend of the most favorable moves. Fig. 1.  The way the above principles are embodied in the BATA algorithm is describing by the following steps: 2.1. Step 1 (Initialization phase) In the initialization phase, a positive value of the threshold is selected ( T ho >0), and a feasible initial solution (routing plan) is found. Since the employment of numerous constructive methods ( Clarke and Wright, 1964 ; Paessens, 1988 ) did not produce good quality initial solutions due to the limited number of heterogeneous vehicles involved, the following simple but more effective than the aforementioned methods constructive heuristic procedure was followed: The customer with the higher demand was inserted in the route travelled by the maximum free load (capacity) vehicle. The procedure was repeated until all customers were inserted in a route. Generally speaking, the generation of an initial solution for the HFFVRP by employing more “sophisticated” methods was a particularly difficult task due to the natural tendency of these methods to produce a solution with unfeasible vehicle fleet composition.