A Two-stage Ant Colony Optimization Algorithm for the Vehicle Routing Problem with Time Windows. Source: International Journal of Advancements in Computing Technology . Jan2012, Vol. 4 Issue 1, p485-491. 7p. Author(s): Xudong Wu Abstract: The vehicle routing problem with time windows is a NP-hard problem which has a wide range of use in practice. The proposed optimization algorithm of this paper is based on ant colony optimization algorithm, and has two independent stages. The goal of the first stage is to minimize the number of vehicles, and in the second stage the total distance of all routes is minimized by means of local search method. The approach was tested by standard Solomon problems and the result shows that this two- stage ant colony optimization algorithm is better than other heuristic algorithms in some problems. Copyright of International Journal of Advancements in Computing Technology is the property of Advanced Institute of Convergence Information Technology and its content may not be copied or emailed to multiple sites or posted to a listserv without the copyright holder's express written permission. However, users may print, download, or email articles for individual use. This abstract may be abridged. No warranty is given about the accuracy of the copy. Users should refer to the original published version of the material for the full abstract. For access to this entire article and additional high quality information, please check with your college/university library, local public library, or affiliated institution. Important User Information: Remote access to EBSCO's databases is permitted to patrons of subscribing institutions accessing from remote locations for personal, non-commercial use. However, remote access to EBSCO's databases from non-subscribing institutions is not allowed if the purpose of the use is for commercial gain through cost reduction or avoidance for a non-subscribing institution. Privacy Policy Terms of Use Copyright © 2015 EBSCO Industries, Inc. All rights reserved.