  The Multi-Compartment Vehicle Routing Problem involves clients with a demand for different products and vehicles with several compartments to co-transport these commodities. We present a local search procedure that explores well-known moves (2-opt, cross, exchange, relocate), and exploits the mechanisms of neighbour lists and marking to speed up the searches. We combine the procedure with the Guided Local Search meta-heuristic to improve solution quality. Extensive computational results are reported to uncover when co-distribution by vehicles with multiple compartments is better than separate distribution with un-partitioned trucks. Sensitivities in key problem parameters including, client density and location of the depot, vehicle capacity, client demand and number of commodities are investigated. Keywords Routing ; Multi-compartment routing ; Meta-heuristics ; Guided Local Search ; Co-collection ; Separate collection 1. Introduction The classical Capacitated Vehicle Routing Problem (CVRP), originally introduced by Dantzig and Ramser (1959) , has received a lot of attention in the OR literature (see Laporte et al., 2000  and  Toth and Vigo, 2002 for overviews). The CVRP is the problem of finding a set of minimum cost routes visiting customers with positive demands and such that: each route starts and ends at a given depot, each customer is visited only once, and the total load on each route does not exceed the vehicle capacity. The problem we study in this paper-the Multi-Compartment Vehicle Routing Problem (MCVRP)-is an extension of the CVRP. In the MCVRP the customers request the collection (or delivery) of different products, and these commodities need to be kept segregated during transport. Vehicles with multiple compartments (each compartment with limited capacity) are available at the depot to co-transport the products. The goal in the MCVRP is to find routes of total minimum distance, but each vehicle has several capacity constraints (one for each compartment) and the commodities are not to be commingled. Despite several real life applications, the MCVRP has not been studied extensively. A well-known application involves dispatching different petroleum products simultaneously to petrol stations using tank trucks with isolated compartments ( Brown and Graves, 1981  and  Brown et al., 1987 ). Avella et al. (2004) studied a fuel delivery problem from a central depot involving vehicles with several tanks of different capacity. Cornillier et al. (2008) developed a heuristic procedure for the multi-period petrol station replenishment problem, which consist of optimising the delivery of petroleum products to a set of petrol stations by trucks with multiple compartments over a given planning horizon. A second application involves the delivery of food and grocery products to convenience stores. The orders made by the stores are often delivered by a single distributor, who delivers dry, refrigerated and frozen items in a vehicle with compartments at different temperatures ( Chajakis and Guignard, 2003 ). El Fallahi et al. (2008) mention the distribution of animal feed to farms as another application, where different feeds are kept segregated to avoid contamination. Multi-compartment vehicles are also deployed for the collection of source-separated waste streams ( Apotheker, 1990 , Platt and Zachary, 1992  and  Jahre, 1995 ), where, for example, one compartment is dedicated to general waste and another compartment to recyclables. Our interest in the MCVRP is very much related to this last application. When the clients to be visited generate different types of waste, collection firms have the flexibility to deploy traditional, un-partitioned vehicles, which collect one type of waste at a time ( separate collection ), or they may deploy vehicles with multiple compartments to co-collect different waste streams ( co-collection ). It is not well understood, however, under what circumstances co-collection is better (i.e., results in shorter routes) compared with separate collection. Whereas routes for separate collection can be designed using a standard CVRP algorithm, evaluating the routing efficiency of co-collection requires a MCVRP solution procedure. Such a procedure was proposed only recently by El Fallahi et al. (2008) , who developed a Memetic Algorithm (i.e., a genetic algorithm hybridised with a local search procedure) and a tabu search procedure for the MCVRP. In this paper we present an alternative, local search procedure for the MCVRP. We start in Section 2 with a more formal description of the MCVRP together with the assumptions we make. Key features of our algorithm are presented in Section 3 , while a high-level outline of the algorithm is given in Section 4 . In Section 5 we present our computational experiments. We compare our results with El Fallahi et al. (2008) and we try to find out when co-collection is better than separate collection. Our conclusions follow in Section 6 . 2. Description of the MCVRP The MCVRP can be defined as follows. Let {0, 1, 2, … ,  n } denote a set of n  + 1 points, where ‘0’ represents the depot and {1, 2, … ,  n } the client set. The shortest path distance between two points i and j is d ( i ,  j ), and we assume d ( i ,  j ) =  d ( j ,  i ), i.e., the distances are symmetrical. Each client i   has a non-negative integer demand q ik q ik for each commodity k  ( k  = 1, … ,  K   ). These commodities are collected by multi-compartment vehicles, which are based at the depot. The vehicles are identical and have a dedicated compartment with capacity Q k Q k for each commodity k   . It is assumed that q ik ⩽ Q k for all i , k   . We also assume that different commodities from the same client can be picked up by different vehicles but that the amount q ik q ik of a specific commodity at a particular client cannot be split between different tours. The objective in the MCVRP is to find a set of vehicle routes of total minimum distance such that all client demands are satisfied and collected in the designated vehicle compartments without violating capacities, with every route starting and ending at the depot. The MCVRP is NP-hard; it reduces to the standard CVRP when K  = 1.