Password: In this paper a model and several solution procedures for a novel type of vehicle routing problems where time windows for the pickup of perishable goods depend on the dispatching policy used in the solution process are presented. This problem is referred to as Vehicle Routing Problem with multiple interdependent time windows (VRPmiTW) and is motivated by a project carried out with the Austrian Red Cross blood program to assist their logistics department. Several variants of a heuristic constructive procedure as well as a branch-and-bound based algorithm for this problem were developed and implemented. Besides finding the expected reduction in costs when compared with the current procedures of the Austrian Red Cross, the results show that the heuristic algorithms find solutions reasonably close to the optimum in fractions of a second. Another important finding is that increasing the number of pickups at selected customers beyond the theoretical minimum number of pickups yields significantly greater potential for cost reductions. Keywords Vehicle routing problem ; Multiple time windows ; Interdependent time windows 1. Introduction In this paper we will discuss a problem motivated by a project carried out in cooperation with the Austrian Red Cross blood program. This new type of problem is characterized by two fundamental extensions to the Vehicle Routing Problem with Time Windows (VRPTW) which result in a vehicle routing problem with multiple interdependent time windows (VRPmiTW) for each customer. The first extension is that goods are continuously produced at each customer location during a certain production time window and at a certain rate that is not necessarily constant. The second extension introduces another dynamic component to the model by adding a time constraint for further processing of produced goods at the central depot. We assume that any goods produced at the customer locations are perishable and have to arrive at the depot within a certain time span after production. This leads to interdependencies between all pickups at a customer location and, as we will show later, between all pickups on a tour. This is because deterioration time and travel time to the depot determine a maximum time span between two subsequent pickups at a single customer location. Assuming continuous production during production time windows as well as fixed deterioration and travel times enables us to calculate a minimum number of pickups for each customer. Given a fixed number of pickups the described problem structure allows us to further generate time windows for all pickups that are related to each other. More precisely, the time of a pickup at a given customer determines the latest pickup time for subsequent pickups at this customer. The problem we deal with in this paper originates from the blood collection process of the Austrian Red Cross blood program. In Eastern Austria, all blood needs to be processed in one blood bank centrally located in Vienna within about 5 h after donation due to processing requirements. It is a stated objective of the Austrian Red Cross blood program that donated blood should not perish. At the campaigns teams collect the donations and provide for a proper storage of these. Due to the perishability of the blood, the durations and the locations of the campaigns, it is generally not possible for the campaign teams to simply bring back all the donated blood to the blood bank upon the end of a campaign. Rather, additional vehicles need to be assigned to pick up collected blood from the different events in regular intervals. These additional vehicles are dispatched from the blood bank and have to return to the blood bank. Currently, this blood transport is manually scheduled. Obviously, the Austrian Red Cross is interested in organizing donation transportation in a cost-efficient way. The goal is to find minimum cost tours and to allocate the appropriate transport devices to take back all the blood. The objective is to minimize the total driving time. The critical issue in this problem is the fact that the dispatching decisions made in the solution procedure directly influence the time windows for visits at the campaign events. Consider the following example: there is one blood donation campaign from which it takes 60 min to return to the blood bank. Given the fact that donated blood must be no older than 300 min by the time it is further processed at the blood bank this implies that the time between two consecutive pickups at the campaign must not exceed 240 min, if no blood is to perish. Thus, if the dispatcher decides that the campaign is visited at 9 h in the morning the latest possible time for the consecutive pickup is at 13 h. While this calculation is trivial if one assumes that the vehicle directly returns to the blood bank after visiting the campaign location, it gets much more complicated if pickups at several campaigns are combined on one tour—especially when additional waiting times and different delivery dates must be combined. The interdependencies of the multiple time windows at the customer locations constitute the main novelty in the problem formulation presented in this paper and the major challenge for the solution procedures developed. Because of this problem feature we can consider the problem at hand as a special case of the VRPTW. For a recent overview of the different algorithms for solving the VRPTW, see [1]  and  [2] . In the last years different metaheuristics mainly based on local search methods were developed which provide fairly good results [3] , [4]  and  [5] . There exist also a few exact approaches based on Lagrangian relaxation [6] and a branch-and-cut approach [7] . While problems with multiple time windows have been studied in the past, see e.g. [8] , these previous works deal with cases where each customer has to be visited just once, within a choice of one of several possible time windows. The problem considered in this paper is more closely related to the periodic VRPTW. In [9] the unified tabu search heuristic is applied to solve this problem, while a heuristic approach to a real world period vehicle routing problem for the collection of recycling paper containers is presented in [10] . For the problem class of the period travelling salesman problem, where over a period of time each customer must be visited at least once with some customers requiring several visits, Chao et al. [11] and Paletta [12]  and  [23] report on the development of heuristic approaches, while in [13] this problem class is solved by using a parallel genetic algorithm and local search heuristics. These problems do not have time window and maximum tour length constraints. The design of an exact solution procedure based on integer programming for a VRPTW faced by the American Red Cross is studied in [14] . In that approach the objective is to bring a predetermined amount of blood from the campaign events back to the processing facility at a minimum cost, where the amount collected at each campaign depends on the time of the pickup. Only a single pickup per campaign event is considered thus eliminating interdependence between time windows. Still, a maximum tour length exists due to perishability of blood. Already in 1976 Or developed solution techniques for transportation problems in blood banks in his PhD-thesis [24] . Our problem is somewhat similar to the Inventory Routing Problem (see, e.g. [15] ). In the Inventory Routing Problem the main time horizon is generally a few weeks or days and the main issue is to determine an optimal visit frequency at the customers to jointly minimize transportation and inventory costs. In this setting multiple visits per day at the same customer are very unlikely and thus the actual routing of the vehicles does not influence the feasibility of a given frequency. On the contrary, in our problem changing the sequence of a route may render another route infeasible and lead to the necessity of additional pickups at several other customers. Besides this main difference in the problems the routing decisions do of course influence the transportation costs in both the Inventory Routing Problem and our VRPmiTW. Summarizing, all these approaches are not applicable to our problem because some essential features are missing. Thus, to solve the VRPmiTW we develop and apply several variants of a constructive heuristic as well as an exact branch-and-bound algorithm. Both approaches are based on the savings idea [16] . Our results show that the heuristic techniques produce solutions reasonably close to the optimal solutions in negligible time for a basic case, where the number of pickups is fixed at the theoretical minimum number of pickups for each customer. Furthermore, increasing the number of pickups for selected customers beyond this minimum number was found to yield high additional cost reductions. While in these cases computational times for the exact method become prohibitively large our heuristics provide very good solutions within seconds. Thus, the contribution of our paper is twofold, namely (i) the modelling of this novel problem and (ii) the development of our solution procedures which are shown to efficiently find solutions of high quality. The remainder of the paper is organized as follows. In Section 2 we describe our mixed-integer programming formulation for the problem at hand. 3  and  4 present a general description of our heuristic and exact techniques followed by implementation issues associated with feasibility requirements and time window propagation. Results from our computational analysis are given in Section 5 before we conclude with an outlook on issues for further research.