Password: In real-time fleet management, vehicle routes are built in an on-going fashion as vehicle locations, travel times and customer requests are revealed over the planning horizon. To deal with such problems, a new generation of fast on-line algorithms capable of taking into account uncertainty is required. Although several articles on this topic have been published, the literature on real-time vehicle routing is still disorganized. In this paper the research in this field is reviewed and some issues that have not received attention so far are highlighted. A particular emphasis is put on parallel computing strategies. Keywords Parallel computing ; Metaheuristics ; Routing 1. Introduction Vehicle routing problems (VRPs) are central to logistics management both in the private and public sectors. They consist of determining optimal vehicle routes through a set of users, subject to side constraints. The most common operational constraints impose that the total demand carried by a vehicle at any time does not exceed a given capacity, the total duration of any route is not greater than a prescribed bound, and service time windows set by customers are respected. In long-haul routing, vehicles are typically assigned one task at a time while in short-haul routing, tasks are of short duration (much shorter than a work shift) and a tour is to be built through a sequence of tasks. For a survey on the most relevant modeling and algorithmic issues on VRPs see the recent book by Toth and Vigo [1] . There exist several important problems that must be solved in real-time. In what follows, we review the main applications that motivate the research in the field of the real-time VRPs. (i) Dynamic fleet management: Several large-scale trucking operations require real-time dispatching of vehicles for the purpose of collecting or delivering shipments. Important savings can be achieved by optimizing these operations [2] , [3] , [4] , [5] , [6] , [7]  and  [8] . (ii) Vendor-managed distribution systems: In vendor-managed systems, distribution companies estimate customer inventory level in such a way to replenish them before they run out of stock. Hence, demands are known beforehand in principle and all customers are static . However, because demand is uncertain, some customers (usually a small percentage) may run out of stock and have to be serviced urgently [9]  and  [10] . (iii) Couriers: Long-distance courier need to collect locally outbound parcels before sending them to a remote terminal to consolidate loads. Also, loads coming from remote terminals have to be distributed locally. Most pick-up requests are dynamic and have to be serviced the same day if possible [11] , [12]  and  [13] . (iv) Rescue and repair service companies: There are several companies providing rescue or repair services (broken car rescue, appliance repair, etc.) [14] , [15]  and  [16] . (v) Dial-a-ride systems: Dial-a-ride systems provide transportation services to people between given origin–destination pairs. Customers can book a trip one day in advance ( static customers ) [17] or make a request at short notice ( dynamic customers ) [18]  and  [19] . (vi) Emergency services: Emergency services comprise police, fire fighting and ambulance services. By definition, all customers are dynamic. Moreover, the demand rate is usually low so that vehicles become idle from time to time. In this context, relocating idle vehicles in order to anticipate future demands or to escape from downtown rush hour traffic jam is a major issue [20] , [21]  and  [22] . (vii) Taxi cab services: In taxi cab services, almost every customer is dynamic. As in emergency services, relocating temporary idle vehicles is an issue. Due to recent advances in information and communication technologies, vehicle fleets can now be managed in real-time. When jointly used, devices like geographic information systems (GIS), global positioning systems (GPS), traffic flow sensors and cellular telephones are able to provide relevant real-time data, such as current vehicle locations, new customer requests and periodic estimates of road travel times [16] . If suitably processed, this large amount of data can be in principle be used to reduce cost and improve service level. To this end, revised routes have to be timely generated as soon as new events occur. In recent years, three main developments have contributed to the acceleration and quality of algorithms relevant in a real-time context. The first is the increase in computing power due to better hardware. The second is the development of powerful metaheuristics whose main impact has been mostly on solution accuracy even if this gain has sometimes been achieved at the expense of computing time. The third development has arisen in the field of parallel computing. The combination of these three features has yielded a new generation of powerful algorithms that can effectively be used to provide real-time solutions in dynamic contexts. The aim of this article is to review some of the existing literature on local area real-time routing and dispatching problems with an emphasis on potential developments in the field of parallel computing. Our purpose is not to provide an extensive coverage of all existing algorithms. Rather we wish to describe the key concepts and trends in the area of real-time routing in the hope of stimulating further research. The remainder of this article is organized as follows. In Section 2 the main features of real-time VRPs are illustrated, while in 3  and  4 some of the most important algorithms are reviewed. Finally, in Section 5 a number of unexplored real-time VRPs are identified and new solution approaches are proposed, including several parallelization strategies for speeding up route re-optimization. 2. Definitions and concepts In this section, we provide a simple classification of real-time VRPs and we examine some of their main features. 2.1. Problem classification A VRP is said to be static if its input data (travel times, demands,…) do not depend explicitly on time, otherwise it is dynamic . Moreover, a VRP is deterministic if all input data are known when designing vehicle routes, otherwise it is stochastic . (i) Static VRPs: A static problem can be either deterministic or stochastic. In deterministic and static VRPs (like the classical capacitated VRP surveyed in [1] ) all data are known in advance and time is not taken into account explicitly. In stochastic and static VRPs [23] vehicle routes are designed at the beginning of the planning horizon, before uncertain data become known. Uncertainty may affect which service requests are present, user demands, user service times or travel times. If input data are uncertain, it is usually impossible to satisfy the constraints for all realisations of the random variables. If uncertainty affects the constraints but the objective function is deterministic, it can be required that constraints be satisfied with a given probability (chance constrained programming, CCP). In a more general approach, a first phase solution is constructed before uncertain data are available and corrective (or recourse ) actions are taken at a second stage once all the realisations of the random variables become known. The objective to be minimized is the first stage cost plus the expected recourse cost (stochastic programming with recourse, SPR). (ii) Dynamic VRPs: A dynamic problem can also be deterministic or stochastic [24] . In deterministic and dynamic problems, all data are known in advance and some elements of information depend on time. For instance, the VRP with time windows reviewed in [25] belongs to this class of problems. Similarly, the traveling salesman problem (TSP) with time-dependent travel times [26] is deterministic and dynamic. In this problem, a traveling salesperson has to find the shortest closed tour among several cities passing through all cities exactly once, and travel times may vary throughout the day. Finally, in stochastic and dynamic problems (also known as real-time routing and dispatching problems) uncertain data are represented by stochastic processes . For instance, user requests can behave as a Poisson process (as in [27] ). Since uncertain data are gradually revealed during the operational interval, routes are not constructed beforehand. Instead, user requests are dispatched to vehicles in an on-going fashion as new data arrive [28] .