Password: Recent technological advances in Operational Research and Information Technology have enabled the development of high quality spatial decision support systems (SDSS). They constitute a new scientific area of information systems applications developed to support semi-structured or unstructured decisions, paying much attention to the spatial dimension of data to be analyzed, such as the location and shape of, and relationships among, geographic features. This paper presents a SDSS to coordinate and disseminate tasks and related information for solving the vehicle routing problem (VRP) using a metaheuristic method termed: backtracking adaptive threshold accepting (BATA). Its architecture involves an integrated framework of geographical information system (GIS) and a relational database management system (RDBMS) equipped with interactive communication capabilities between peripheral software tools. The SDSS was developed for Windows 98 platforms, focusing on the detailed road network of Athens. Keywords Geographical information systems ; Spatial decision support systems ; Vehicle routing problem ; Logistics management 1. Introduction This paper presents a spatial decision support system (SDSS) to coordinate and disseminate tasks and related information for solving the vehicle routing problem (VRP) using a metaheuristic method termed backtracking adaptive threshold accepting (BATA). In this important problem, a fleet of homogeneous vehicles with a fixed carrying capacity, located on a central depot, must deliver order quantities of the same or different products, to a number of customers. If the distance between each pair of customers is known, the problem is to find vehicle tours in such a way that: • The total distance traveled by the vehicles is minimized. • The capacity of a vehicle cannot be exceeded. • A single vehicle supplies each customer’s demand. The number of vehicles is unlimited, meaning that the SDSS can handle an unlimited number of customers. The capacity of vehicles and the demand of the products are defined by record files in the database. In order to order products, customers place “on-line” via a Web page. The architecture of the SDSS involves an integrated framework of geographical information system (GIS) technology equipped with interactive communication capabilities between peripheral software tools. Its rationale is based on the development of a distributed environment for the integration of software applications that share data and operations through a common database repository and which can support a large-scale organization’s manipulation and retrieval of data. This effort is chiefly based on careful definitions of data type objects and the construction of focused methods to manipulate them. In fact, there are many opportunities presented by such a system for new, current and future users. They benefit from the consistent behavior and feel of the system, minimizing frustration and time-spent in learning the mechanical aspects of the programs, since similar user interfaces are implemented to all tasks. By using and developing focused applications for specific object types, users and programmers alike benefit from an increase in application reusability. The structuring of the data, assure the programmer that only specific object types are available. This allows applications to grow and develop or remain operational even if the object definitions evolve and change. The use of objects even protects the user from having to know the differences between diverse applications that perform the same function. Future users benefit because the consistency imposed upon a project allows history maintenance and retrieval mechanisms to be incorporated. Users can also take advantage of the information obtained from an old project in any new project developments. The SDSS manages to overcome efficiently the technical and managerial difficulties faced during the implementation of the system with ad hoc connections between the GIS, the evolving database management system (DBMS), and the routing methods used for calculating the shortest paths between all pairs of customers and routing plans. 2. The evolution of the vehicle routing systems (VRS) In the mid-1960s, VRP solutions were based on non-computerized methods, where routes were designed manually by using paper maps that provide locations of customers to be routed as geographical reference points. By the early 1970s, vehicle routing heuristics [13] , [15] , [18] , [24] , [39]  and  [40] were used to produce routes together with skilled manual intervention by experienced routing decision makers who had considerable knowledge of local condition and of the relative importance of the various constraints. From the early 1980s every VRS was seen as a decision support system (DSS), due to its links to the database management system in order to organize large amounts of data (customer specific orders, size of the vehicle fleet, etc.) and the use of a visual interface needed to support problem specific decisions [1] , [4] , [5] , [6] , [7] , [20] , [28] , [31] , [32]  and  [35] . During the same time period, the area of IS gave birth to systems for analyzing, storing and displaying spatially or geographically related data. These systems were generally implemented on UNIX workstations and termed GIS [29] . However, the vehicle routing DSSs of that period started by integrating geographical data and focusing on spatial dimension of the VRP by linking to external information sources, such as public mapping agencies and raster images of paper maps [8] . The growth of GISs was rapid in the 1990s when personal computers became powerful and capable of supporting such systems and the increasing volume of digital spatial data became available [12] , [21] , [26] , [33]  and  [34] . However, the traditional GIS could not support routing efficiently since it provided routines only for finding shortest paths. Even today only a limited number of GIS products provide more effective routing techniques, thus, increasing the need for developing DSSs that will incorporate effective methods for solving real life (large) vehicle routing problems, combined with spatial techniques drawn from the field of GIS [9] , [10]  and  [37] . Such systems are characterized as VRP–SDSS and they support semi-structured or unstructured vehicle routing decision making by displaying features such as road network, administrative boundaries, complex path constraints, paying much attention on spatially referenced data [11] , [27]  and  [38] . At this point, it is important to make clear that pure spatial data refers to information stored on maps and to information about the relationships of entities in space while spatially referenced data refers to thematic or applied data such as customer addresses coded by ZIP code or vehicle routes designed by street address [17] . 3. Distributed component software The architecture of the SDSS is based on distributed component software. Distributed environments for the integration of software applications that share a common database repository, encourages the development of small tightly focused applications that perform specialized tasks. This allows the re-use of software components and the development of a consistent user interface. The creation of huge and monolithic applications is avoided, enabling the development of more adaptable tools. There is also the possibility of synergy being developing through the use of many small tools. These use an architecture and application dependent object format to achieve an integrated environment. The use of object oriented techniques allows users to tailor the system to their demands and needs. Distributed software systems, allow project managers to divide a project, yet still maintaining the integrity of the whole. Different people or groups can each be given a particular part of the project, and be able to work on it independently of others. Each team member, however, can access other people’s work through the facilities provided by the system. 4. The architecture of the SDSS The architecture of the SDSS is shown in Fig. 1 ; it consists of five modules: • The geographical information system (GIS). • The database management system (DBMS) (Microsoft SQL Server). • The network analysis tool (NAT). • The vehicle routing optimization tool (VROT). • The user interface. Fig. 1. 