Password: The vehicle routing problem has been widely studied in the literature, mainly because of the real world logistics and transportation problems related to it. In the present paper, a new two-stage exact approach for solving a real problem is shown, along with decision making software. In the first stage, all the feasible routes are generated by means of an implicit enumeration algorithm; afterwards, an integer programming model is designed to select in the second stage the optimum routes from the set of feasible routes. The integer model uses a number of 0–1 variables ranging from 2000 to 15,000 and gives optimum solutions in an average time of 60 seconds (for instances up to 60 clients). An interactive decision support system was also developed. The system was tested with a set of real instances and, in a worst-case scenario (up to 60 clients), the routes obtained ranged from a 7% to 12% reduction in the distance travelled and from a 9% to 11% reduction in operational costs. Keywords Decision support systems ; Logistics ; Routing ; Transportation 1. Introduction: The problem Logistics and transportation account for a large portion of the economies of the developed countries. Therefore, governments and private companies focus their attention on developing systems that could aid logistics managers to lower costs and achieve greater flexibility. A lot of research has been performed in the field of logistics and many techniques have been already developed, from the travelling salesman problem to complex dynamic routing problems. One of the prominent problems in logistics is the vehicle routing problem or VRP. This problem can be briefly described as a set of N clients or customers with known and deterministic demands d i , i ∈1,…, N , that have to be served from a central depot or origin with a fleet of t delivery trucks of known capacity Q . Normally, the objective is to minimize the total distance travelled by the truck fleet, but it is also common to minimize route costs. This combinatorial problem in its simplest form, is -Hard (see Garey and Johnson, 1979 ), and was initially studied by Dantzig and Ramser (1959) and by Clarke and Wright (1964) . A much more comprehensive and detailed study of this problem can be found in Bramel and Simchi-Levi (1999) , Crainic and Laporte (1999) and Ball et al. (1995) . This paper deals with a real problem in close relation to the VRP. Below, follows a complete explanation of this problem. Nanta S.A. is the leading Iberian feed compounder, with production plants in Spain and, more recently, in Portugal. It offers extensive ranges of pig and poultry feeding, as well as feed for ruminants, rabbits and other livestock, all of which amount to more than 150 different products. It currently operates a total of 11 factories, 10 of them in Spain and one in Portugal. The plant under study is located in Valencia, at the east coast of Spain. Nanta’s plants are highly automated and the productive process is computerized. With the production already solved, the company’s factories and in particular, the plant located in Valencia, face other important issues, such as feed compound distribution to clients. Every day, more than 800,000 kg of compound feed have to be distributed to an average of 70 clients, out of a total of 700 different clients located at distances ranging from 15 to 450 km away from the production plant. The orders placed have to be delivered with an outsourced truck fleet the following day. Furthermore, between 5 and 30 urgent orders are additionally placed each day, causing a certain degree of havoc both at production and logistic levels. The existence of rush (urgent) orders is a very problematic issue, as rush orders usually have to be delivered by single-stop trucks due to the impossibility of re-organizing all the routes in such a short period of time. Each truck has its unique characteristics and capacities, the capacities ranging from 12 to 24 ton. Every truck has a number of watertight compartments used to carry different kinds of feed compound, each compartment has a capacity of 4 ton. Three different kind of trucks are considered (this is a simplification that does not affect the solution). These trucks are the trailers, with six compartments (24 ton), four axle trucks that also have six compartments but are smaller, and the three axle trucks, which only have four compartments (16 ton). As we will see, it is very important to remark that from one compartment, only one client can be served. This is because the trucks do not include a method for measuring how much feed compound is being poured to each determinate client, and instead, each compartment is assigned to a client order, therefore, the number of clients served will depend on the number of compartments. For example, a trailer can visit only six clients at most. The company uses a complex function when evaluating the cost of a given route, which can be explained as follows: The company pays to the outsourced truck company a given amount of money depending on the distance travelled to the final stop of the truck. With that distance, a corresponding price per ton of load is looked up in a table, and then multiplied by the number of ton initially carried by the truck, which finally gives the amount to be paid. There are some minimum loadings that have to be taken into account, the minimum load for a 24 ton truck is 23 ton and for a 16 ton is 15 ton, so, if a truck travels half empty, the company would have to pay the minimum load, for example, if a 24 ton truck carries 20 ton the company would have to pay for 23 ton thus paying for 3 ton of “air”. In addition to this, a lot of constraints have to be considered; the maximum allowed weight for the trucks cannot exceed local regulations, and some trucks cannot reach some clients or pass along some roads, bridges or tunnels because of their size and/or weight. Also, the company sets a 450 km maximum distance for trucks to travel in single trips, and a minimum order weight of 4 ton (the capacity of a truck compartment). Route building processes are not computerized and can be briefly explained as follows: • First, the orders that would fill a whole truck are assigned to single-stop routes, for example, if a client demands 24 ton of feed compound, a single trailer would be used. • The remaining orders are grouped and assigned to some predetermined geographical areas. Afterwards, a simple geographical information system (GIS) is used to manually generate routes in an attempt to minimize distances and use all truck capacity. • The orders that do not fit into any of the routes previously generated are delivered with smaller trucks (16 ton) in single-stop routes. For orders larger than 16 ton the client is contacted in order to rearrange another delivery at a later time and/or another feed compound quantity (usually smaller so the order can fit into an already built route). The whole process can take as much as five working hours and can lead to very unsatisfying results, since many times clients are not served within datelines required or are served a lesser quantity of the product. Many papers in the literature deal with the vehicle routing problem and its variations, some deal with traditional techniques such as integer programming and some suggest more recent techniques such as genetic algorithms or Tabu Search. Generally, the solution techniques used for solving the VRP can be separated into exact methods and heuristics or, more recently, metaheuristics. Regarding exact approaches, Önal et al. (1996) , proposed a mixed integer programming model and a dynamic programming method which was applied to a real problem of fuel dispatching in an agribusiness firm where multiple deliveries are considered. Both methods are compared with favourable results for the dynamic approach. However, the problem instances tested range from 5 to 9 clients. The real problem illustrated in this paper considers a larger number of 70 clients. Blasum and Hochstättler (2000) show an interesting modification of the classical Branch and Cut algorithm, however the algorithm proposed only offers a solution for a simple variation of the VRP, the symmetric capacitated routing problem. Blasum and Hochstättler manage to solve some synthetic instances to optimality but at a rather high computational cost. Toth and Vigo (2002) present a review of models and exact techniques for the VRP, in which several branch and bound approaches for the VRP are reviewed and evaluated. Although some of the methods are suitable for fairly sized instances, to the best of our knowledge, none of them deal with problems other than the basic version of the VRP (only vehicle capacity is considered). As we can see, there are some serious drawbacks regarding exact approaches. Many times exact algorithms are not suitable for real instances since the computational times needed in order to obtain a solution are unviable and the VRP variations considered are far too simple for the methods to be of any practical use. Furthermore, it is not always easy to adapt integer programming models or Branch and Bound algorithms to more complicated VRP variations. Heuristic approaches are used when finding an optimal solution for bigger instances in a reasonable amount of time is not deemed possible. There are many heuristic and metaheuristic methods available. Bachem et al. (1996) apply a general improvement heuristic, called simulated trading in a complex parallel computing environment with promising results. Xu and Kelly (1996) use a Tabu Search algorithm to solve the standard VRP. Another metaheuristic applied to the VRP is given in the work of Bullnheimer et al. (1997) . In this case an Ant System is implemented but only for a very simplistic VRP with an homogeneous vehicle fleet. Rego (1998) also considers a Tabu Search algorithm for the VRP, but again, only capacity and route length restrictions are considered in the problem. De Backer et al. (2000) present an interesting work with a constraint programming paradigm (using ILOG Solver) and two metaheuristics, Tabu Search and guided local search. The results are compared against Solomon’s classic benchmark (1987) . In the work of Van Breedam (2001) three different metaheuristics for the classic VRP are compared. These are descent search, simulated annealing and Tabu Search. In a later work ( Van Breedam, 2002 ) the author compares a total of 10 heuristics, in this case, slightly more sophisticated variations of the VRP are considered.