  In real life distribution of goods, relatively long service times may make it difficult to serve all requests during regular working hours. These difficulties are even greater if the beginning of the service in each demand site must occur within a time window and violations of routing time restrictions are particularly undesirable. We address this situation by considering a variant of the vehicle routing problem with time windows for which, besides routing and scheduling decisions, a number of extra deliverymen can be assigned to each route in order to reduce service times. This problem appears, for example, in the distribution of beverage and tobacco in highly dense Brazilian urban areas. We present a mathematical programming formulation for the problem, as well as a tabu search and an ant colony optimization heuristics for obtaining minimum cost routes. The performance of the model and the heuristic approaches are evaluated using instances generated from a set of classic examples from the literature. ► We introduced the VRPTWMD and formulated it as an extension of a VRPTW model. ► We proposed two solution approaches based on tabu search and ant colony optimization. ► The impacts of the use of extra deliverymen in route planning were assessed. ► The results indicated the benefits of the two heuristics. Keywords Vehicle routing with multiple deliverymen ; Vehicle routing with time windows ; Mixed integer programming ; Tabu search ; Ant colony optimization ; Beverage distribution 1. Introduction In vehicle routing problems, a set of routes is designed in order to meet customer demands. The literature in this field addresses situations with a variety of operational characteristics, such as the type of distribution (pickup and/or delivery), service nature (transportation of products/people or service delivery), constrained customer visiting hours, vehicle capacity limitations, maximum routing time, restricted types of vehicles for serving specific customers, among many others. The objective of a solution can be stated as that of minimizing fixed and variable total costs, such as the fleet size and the total distance of the tours. Most vehicle routing problems have a combinatorial nature and their inherent difficulty (the classic vehicle routing problem and most of its variants are NP-hard as pointed out in Lenstra and Rinnooy-Kan, 1981 ) and practical relevance explains the research efforts and continuous methodological development for their treatment. This work addresses a variant of the vehicle routing problem with time windows (VRPTW) which allows a number of deliverymen (servicemen) to be assigned to each route in order to reduce service times. This variant is particularly relevant to situations with long service times (which are dependent on the quantity demanded) when compared with traveling times and it is derived from real life applications for which daily requests must be delivered on the same day, the total operation cannot be completed within the maximum routing time and violations to the latter are highly undesirable. Service times are thus also a function of the vehicle’s crew size rather than fixed for a given request. The reduction of service times due to the assignment of extra deliverymen most often impacts the number of vehicles used and the total distance traveled. We call this variant the vehicle routing problem with time windows and multiple deliverymen (VRPTWMD). This problem arises in situations faced by companies in Brazil and other developing countries that deliver goods in urban areas on a regular basis. Typical examples are soft drinks, juice drinks, mineral waters, beers and tobacco companies for which most customers consist of small and medium sized retailers (e.g., convenience stores, grocery stores, restaurants, snack bars and cafes, supermarkets, etc.) located in high-density populated regions. Given the difficulty in parking the vehicles in those areas due to scarcity of parking slots and heavy traffic, customers close to each other are seen as a demand cluster (supernode), and a single parking site is elected for the vehicle serving the cluster (note in this case that parking sites are the routed entities rather than the individual customers’ locations). The goods are then delivered at each demand site of a given cluster by the vehicle’s driver who visits the customers on foot, sometimes by making multiple tours from and to the parking site ( Fig. 1 ). Thus, the delivery of goods is based on a two-phase approach: first the vehicles travel from the depot to the parking site assigned to the cluster, and then the vehicle’s crew delivers the goods to the customer demand location on foot. In these situations, typical service times are relatively large when compared to the vehicle traveling time, which very often implies that part of the total orders cannot be delivered during the driver’s regular working hours. Since these markets are highly competitive, the usual policy is to serve all daily requests on the same day, even if it results in overtime costs and costly fines issued by the government labor department. Fig. 1.  A typical distribution route in Brazilian soft drink companies. This reality has attracted the attention of companies’ logistic departments and motivated the study of alternatives that consider the assignment of extra deliverymen. Note that assigning multiple deliverymen to each route most likely affects individual service times at each demand site of the cluster (in case more than one deliveryman serves each customer at a time), as well as the total service time associated to the cluster (if the customers are served simultaneously, each customer by one or more deliverymen). In both cases, the reduction of service times affects the end of service, which impacts the number of clusters that can be served during working hours on a given day. Therefore, in addition to the usual vehicle routing and scheduling decisions, a solution for the VRPTWMD must also include the number of deliverymen on each route (generally limited due to space restrictions in the vehicle cabin) in order to serve the maximum number of clusters within regular working hours with the fleet and deliverymen available, or to serve all clusters within regular working hours at the minimum total cost of vehicles and deliverymen. Comprehensive surveys of problem classification, solution methods and applications of vehicle routing can be found, for example, in Bodin et al., 1983 , Golden and Assad, 1988 , Laporte, 1992 , Osman, 1993 , Fischer, 1995 , Desroisiers et al., 1995 , Cordeau et al., 2002 , Golden et al., 2002 , Toth and Vigo, 2002 , Bräysy and Gendreau, 2005a , Bräysy and Gendreau, 2005b , Zhong and Cole, 2005 , Cordeau et al., 2007 , Parragh et al., 2008 , Laporte, 2009  and  Baldacci et al., 2010 . Other studies in vehicle routing appear in Fukasawa et al., 2006 , Montane and Galvao, 2006 , Reimann and Ulrich, 2006 , Berbeglia et al., 2007  and  Subramanian et al., 2010 . In particular, vehicle routing studies which are also based on a two-phase structure (i.e., first the vehicles travel from the depot to intermediary locations and then these or other vehicles travel from these locations to the customers) can also be found in the literature in the areas of truck and trailer routing and postal operations, mobile health care facilities and newspaper delivery ( Revelle and Laporte, 1996 ). For instance, in Hoff et al. (2009) the two-phase structure stems from the capacity constraint preventing simultaneous pickups and deliveries. Thus, the set of customers visited on a route is split into two subsets. The first one is constituted by customers who are visited twice along the route. At the beginning of the route these customers receive their deliveries and at the end of the route the vehicle picks up goods from these customers. The second subset of customers is visited once and the pickup and delivery of goods takes place simultaneously. However, these studies based on a two-phase structure are not directly related to the VRPTWMD as they consist of simultaneously locating facilities and designing delivery or collection routes and they do not involve the assignment of extra deliverymen to the vehicles in order to reduce service times. As far as we know, the VRPTWMD has not been reported in the literature and it has not been a feature included in any current commercial routing systems, despite its potential practical applications in the delivery or collection of goods in urban areas ( Pureza and Morabito, 2008 ).