Password: A parallel version of a new hybrid genetic algorithm for the vehicle routing problem with time windows is presented. The route-directed hybrid genetic approach is based upon the simultaneous evolution of two populations of solutions focusing on separate objectives subject to temporal constraint relaxation. While the first population evolves individuals to minimize total traveled distance the second aims at minimizing temporal constraint violation to generate a feasible solution. Genetic operators have been designed to capture key concepts from successful routing techniques to further enhance search diversification and intensification. A master–slave message-passing paradigm characterizes the parallel procedure. The master component controls the execution of the algorithm, coordinates genetic operations and handles parent selection while the slave elements concurrently execute reproduction and mutation operators. Providing additional speed-up, the parallel algorithm further expands on its sequential counterpart, matching or even improving solution quality. Computational results show the proposed technique to be very competitive with the best-known heuristic routing procedures providing some new best-known solutions. Keywords Genetic algorithms ; Metaheuristics ; Vehicle routing 1. Introduction Vehicle routing problems are well-known combinatorial optimization problems with considerable economic significance. In vehicle routing problem with time windows VRPTW [1] , customers with known demands are serviced by a homogeneous fleet of limited capacity vehicles. Routes are assumed to start and end at the central depot. Each customer provides a time interval during which a particular task must be completed such as loading/unloading the vehicle. The objective is to minimize the number of tours or routes, and then for the same number of tours, to minimize the total traveled distance, such that each customer is serviced within its time window and the total load on any vehicle associated with a given route does not exceed the vehicle capacity. A variety of algorithms including exact methods and efficient heuristics have already been proposed for VRPTW. For surveys on exact, heuristic and metaheuristic methods, see Cordeau et al. [1] , Desrosiers et al. [2] and Bräysy and Gendreau [3]  and  [4] , respectively. In particular, evolutionary and genetic algorithms have been among the most suitable approaches to tackle the VRPTW, and are of particular interest to us. Genetic algorithms [5] , [6]  and  [7] are adaptive heuristic search methods that mimic evolution through natural selection. They work by combining selection, recombination and mutation operations. The selection pressure drives the population toward better solutions while recombination uses genes of selected parents to produce offspring that will form the next generation. Mutation is used to escape from local minima. Blanton and Wainwright [8] were the first to apply a genetic algorithm to VRPTW. They hybridized a genetic algorithm with a greedy heuristic. Under this scheme, the genetic algorithm searches for a good ordering of customers, while the construction of the feasible solution is handled by the greedy heuristic. Thangiah [9]  and  [10] uses a genetic algorithm to find good clusters of customers within a “cluster first, route second” problem-solving strategy. Thangiah et al. [11] test the same approach to solve vehicle routing problems with time deadlines. In the algorithm proposed by Potvin and Bengio [12] , new offspring are created by connecting two route segments from two parent solutions or by replacing the route of the second parent solution by the route of the first parent solution. Mutation is then used to reduce the number of routes and to locally optimize the solution. Berger et al. [13] present a hybrid genetic algorithm based on removing certain customers from their routes and then rescheduling them with well-known route-construction heuristics. The mutation operators are primarily aimed at reducing solution number of routes through customer rescheduling and local reordering. Bräysy continues the study of Berger et al. [13] by performing a sensitivity analysis, and by creating new crossover and mutation operators. Also Berger et al. [14] and Berger and Barkaoui [15] have further continued the research direction started in Berger et al. [13] . Homberger and Gehring [16] propose two evolutionary metaheuristics based on the class of evolutionary algorithms called evolution strategies and three well-known route improvement procedures, namely, Or-opt [17] λ -interchanges [18] and 2- [19] . Gehring and Homberger [20]  and  [21] use a similar approach with parallel tabu search implementation. Bräysy et al. [22] hybridize a genetic algorithm with an evolutionary algorithm consisting of several route construction and improvement heuristics. The recent genetic algorithm by Tan et al. [23] is based on Solomon's insertion heuristic [24] , λ -interchanges and the well-known PMX-crossover operator. Other recent studies on various metaheuristics for VRPTW can be found in Rochat and Taillard [25] , Taillard et al. [26] , Chiang and Russell [27] , Cordeau et al. (tabu searches) [28] , Gambardella et al. [29] (ant colony optimization), and Liu and Shen [30] . Noticeable from recent surveys [3]  and  [4] most metaheuristics proposed so far present some variability in average and best performances. Besides, reported average performance results [4] can hardly support any claims acknowledging a dominating heuristic over the others. Accordingly, no single method consistently matched the best-known minimum number of tours over all problem instances examined. Moreover, computational cost represents a sensitive issue to be satisfactorily addressed as well. As a result, a more robust, cost effective and stable (minimal variance in computed number of tours) algorithm still remains elusive. The main contribution of this paper is an attempt to design such a new technique. A parallel version of a route-directed hybrid genetic algorithm (RHGA) for the VRPTW is proposed. Lending itself to some form of parallelism due to the very nature of the underlying genetic algorithm, the approach is based on the simultaneous evolution of two populations of solutions and partial temporal constraint relaxation to improve solution quality. The first population evolves individuals to minimize the total traveled distance while the second focuses on minimizing temporal constraint violation in trying to generate a feasible solution. Imposing a fixed number of tours to solution members of a given population, temporal constraint relaxation facilitates escaping local minima while progressively moving toward a better solution. Populations interact with one another whenever a new feasible solution emerges, reducing gradually the number of tours imposed on future solutions. Genetic operators have been designed to capture key concepts from successful routing techniques to further diversify and intensify the exploration of the solution space. Aimed at providing additional speed-up, the parallel algorithm is based upon a master–slave message-passing paradigm. The master processing element controls the execution of the algorithm, synchronizes atomic genetic operations and handles the parent selection process while the slave processing elements concurrently execute reproduction and mutation operators. The paper is outlined as follows. Section 2 introduces the basic concepts of the proposed parallel hybrid genetic algorithm. The basic principles and features of the algorithm are first described. Then, the selection scheme, recombination and mutation operators are presented. The combination of concepts derived from well-known heuristics such as large-neighborhood search [31] and route neighborhood-based two-stage metaheuristic [30] are briefly outlined. Details are then provided on the parallel version of the algorithm. Section 3 presents the results of a computational experiment to assess the value of the proposed approach and reports a comparative performance analysis to alternate methods. Finally, some conclusions and future research directions are presented in Section 4 . 2. Hybrid genetic approach 2.1. General description Based on the general principles of natural selection, the proposed algorithm somewhat differs from the typical genetic paradigm in which explicit solution encoding is used for problem representation. Genetic operators are merely applied to a population of solutions rather than a population of encoded solutions (chromosomes). We refer to these solutions as solution individuals.