Password: This paper studies the fleet size and mix vehicle routing problem (FSMVRP), in which the fleet is heterogeneous and its composition to be determined. We design and implement a genetic algorithm (GA) based heuristic. On a set of twenty benchmark problems it reaches the best-known solution 14 times and finds one new best solution. It also provides a competitive performance in terms of average solution. Keywords Genetic algorithm ; Single parent crossover ; Local search ; Fleet size and mix vehicle routing problem 1. Introduction The capacitated vehicle routing problem (CVRP) is a problem risen in the fields of transportation, distribution and logistics in which a fleet of delivery vehicles must service known customer demands for a single commodity from a common depot at minimum cost. The vehicles are homogeneous, having the same capacity and costs, while the size of the fleet is unlimited. There are many variants of the CVRP that relax one or both of these conditions. One variant of the CVRP is the fleet size and mix vehicle routing problem (FSMVRP), where one has to decide how many vehicles of each type to use given a mix of vehicle types differing in capacity and costs. Here the fleet is heterogeneous, however, the available number of vehicles for each type remains unlimited. This problem is similar to the CVRP, but the difference is that FSMVRP has different types of vehicles to choose from, while CVRP has only one type. The decision is on both the fleet composition and the vehicle routing. There are two lines of inquiries on FSMVRP addressing different cost structures. The first cost structure involves vehicle types having a uniform variable cost (normally assumed to be 1) and different fixed costs. Golden et al. (1984) present the first mathematical formulation for this FSMVRP. The second cost structure introduced by Salhi et al. (1992) deals with vehicle types that have no fixed cost but different variable costs. In the following, we refer to these two cases as FSMVRP with fixed cost and FSMVRP without fixed cost, respectively. Some researchers study both cases, while others focus on only the FSMVRP with fixed cost; no research studies only the FSMVRP without fixed cost. Among those that studied both cost structures are: Taillard, 1999 , Gendreau et al., 1999 , Wassan and Osman, 2002 , Choi and Tcha, 2007  and  Brandao, 2008 . Among those discussing only the problems with fixed cost include: Desrochers and Verhoog, 1991 , Salhi and Rand, 1993 , Osman and Salhi, 1996 , Ochi et al., 1998 , Liu and Shen, 1999 , Renaud and Boctor, 2002 , Lima et al., 2004  and  Yaman, 2006 . Another related variant of CVRP is the heterogeneous vehicle routing problem (HVRP). Here not only the vehicles in the fleet have different capacity and costs, but also the number of available vehicles is fixed as a priori. The decision is how to best utilize the existing fleet to sever customer demands. This variant is first studied by Taillard (1999) , and later by Tarantilis et al. (2003) , Tarantilis et al., 2004  and  Gencer et al., 2006 and recently by Li et al. (2007) . Even though the two cost structures still apply, the literature seems to deal exclusively with the case without fixed cost, with Gencer et al. (2006) being the exception. A recent survey paper by Baldacci et al. (2008) summarizes these two and other variants of the CVRP involving heterogeneous fleet. Lower bounds and heuristic algorithms in the literature are reviewed. Different computational results from various papers on benchmark instances are compared. In this paper we apply genetic algorithm to solve the FSMVRP where the fleet size is to be determined, and address both cost structures, with and without fixed cost. Before we introduce our algorithm, we first review the literature related to FSMVRP. Lenstra and Rinnooy Kan (1981) proved that the FSMVRP with fixed cost is NP-Hard. It is easy to show that the FSMVRP without fixed cost is also NP-Hard. One only needs to reduce the heterogeneous fleet of FSMVRP to homogeneous and obtain a CVRP, which is NP-Hard. Classical heuristics have been designed to tackle the FSMVRP. Golden et al. (1984) developed several heuristics by revising the saving algorithm of Clarke and Wright (1964) , the sweep algorithm of Gillett and Miller (1974) and the generalized assignment of Fisher and Jaikumar (1981) . Matching based saving algorithms were proposed by Desrochers and Verhoog, 1991 , Salhi and Rand, 1993  and  Osman and Salhi, 1996 . These traditional heuristics are outperformed by a new generation of heuristics, including mathematical programming based heuristics and meta-heuristics, particularly tabu search (TS). Mathematical programming based methods have been proposed in several works; among them are Taillard, 1999 , Renaud and Boctor, 2002 , Yaman, 2006  and  Choi and Tcha, 2007 . Taillard (1999) uses heuristic column generation (HCG). First, tabu search is used to generate a set of good solutions. Then an integer linear program, where each column in the program is a route from the initial solution, is solved to obtain the final solution. Renaud and Boctor (2002) developed a sweep heuristic to find initial routes, and then solved a set partitioning problem to attain solutions to FSMVRP. Some tried to derive upper and lower bounds of the FSMVRP. Yaman (2006) gave several formulations of the FSMVRP with fixed cost, generalized subtour elimination and multistar inequalities. Based on derived valid inequalities, constraint lifting was used to improve the linear programming lower bounds. Choi and Tcha (2007) developed a set covering formulation and solved its linear relaxation by column generation to obtain the bounds. Comparing these methods on the Golden et al. (1984) benchmark instances, the best solutions have been obtained by Choi and Tcha (2007) . Meta-heuristics, such as TS algorithms, have been applied by various authors. Osman and Salhi (1996) developed a short-term memory tabu search using moves in 1-interchange neighborhood. Gendreau et al. (1999) presented a tabu search algorithm that is embedded in an adaptive memory procedure. Their tabu search uses GENIUS ( Gendreau et al., 1992 ) to obtain solutions and a shortest path program to choose vehicle type for each route. Wassan and Osman (2002) developed new variants of a tabu search meta-heuristic. These variants use a mix of different components, including reactive concepts, variable neighborhoods, hashing functions and special data memory structures, similar to adaptive memory procedures. Brandao (2008) developed a deterministic tabu heuristic, which restricts the moves in a nearest neighborhood whose size is determined by the estimated number of customers in a route. GENIUS algorithm and giant tour are used to obtain initial solutions. Evolutionary algorithms have also been attempted by Ochi et al. (1998) and Lima et al. (2004) on the FSMVRP with fixed cost, but with little success. Ochi et al. (1998) developed a parallel genetic algorithm (GA) hybrid with scatter search. A petal decomposition procedure is designed to build chromosomes. Each chromosome is a set of routes, multiple depots are used as route delimiters, and each route is optimized through GENIUS. A vehicle type is assigned to a customer by choosing the vehicle with the lowest product of its remaining capacity and its fixed cost. Using a crossover extended from the TSP edge recombination crossover (ERX), Ochi et al. (1998) evaluated their GA on the Golden et al. (1984) instances. However, no detailed results are given. A histogram showing the comparison with Taillard (1999) seems to contain some error. For example, their cost for instance 14 is only around 1500 while the best solution obtained by various authors, so far, is around 9119. Lima et al. (2004) proposed a memetic algorithm for the FSMVRP with fixed cost. A chromosome coding and vehicle assignment similar to that of Ochi et al. (1998) is used. Edge recombination crossover is applied and two local search procedures, GENUIS and 1- and 2-interchange, are used for mutation. The same Golden et al. (1984) instances are solved. The best and average of 10 runs of their algorithm were reported. No comparison with results from other studies is shown.