  A new column generation based exact optimization approach for the vehicle routing and scheduling problem with semi soft time windows (VRPSSTW) is presented. Elementary shortest path problem with resource constraints and late arrival penalties is solved as a subproblem, which rises from the Dantzig–Wolfe decomposition method. Exact solutions of VRPSSTW and hard time windows variant are compared on Solomon’s benchmark instances as well as on an instance based on Tokyo road network. It was found that the VRPSSTW solution results in fewer routes thus overall costs are reduced and late arrival penalties contribute only a small fraction to total cost. Keywords City logistics ; Vehicle routing with soft time windows ; Column generation 1. Introduction City logistics is a branch of urban management systems that deals with the typical problems relating to urban freight transport, such as traffic congestion, loading and unloading on street and environmental emissions ( Ortuzar and Willumsen, 1995 ). City logistics-related measures, for example, route optimization, optimal location of logistics terminals and depots, load factor controls and cooperative delivery systems are useful to mitigate these problems. The vehicle routing and scheduling problem (VRP) can be used as a principal tool for evaluating many types of city logistics schemes ( Duin et al., 2007 ). The VRP is a well known NP-hard problem which consists of determining a set of optimum routes covering all the demands of a given set of customers without violating the capacity of vehicles. The vehicle routing and scheduling problem with time windows (VRPTW) is an extension of the VRP, where another constraint is added requiring the start of service at each customer i within a pre-specified time window [ a i ,  b i ]. With the vehicle routing and scheduling problem with hard time windows (VRPHTW), delivery of goods outside the time windows is not allowed at all. The VRPHTW is an important variant of the VRP and has been the centre of VRP-related research, though it often lacks the practicality found in real world. A more practical variant of the VRPTW is the vehicle routing and scheduling problem with soft time windows (VRPSTW), where deliveries are still possible outside the time windows with some penalty costs. Unlike the VRPHTW, most of the research on the VRPSTW has adopted heuristics approaches (for example see, Hashimoto et al., 2006 , Taillard et al., 1997  and  Taniguchi et al., 2001 ). Fig. 1  and  Fig. 2 show the penalty cost functions of the VRPHTW and the VRPSTW, respectively. A very high penalty cost outside the time windows is used to model the case of hard time windows. In contrast, arriving earlier and waiting for start of service at any customer is considered as early arrival penalty in the VRPSTW, which is usually much smaller than the late arrival penalty as shown in Fig. 2 . All the exact approaches allow waiting at no cost in solutions of the VRPHTW as indicated in Fig. 3 . Furthermore the exact solution techniques for the VRPHTW rely on the triangular inequality as represented in Eq. (1) , where c ij represents the cost of servicing customer j after customer i in the solution, using arc ( i ,  j ) and h represents some intermediate customer location. equation ( 1 ) c ij ⩽c ih +c hj c ij ⩽ c ih + c hj Fig. 1.  Penalty function for the VRPHTW (waiting allowed at no cost). Presence of the early arrival penalty constraint in the VRPSTW does not always follow the triangular inequality, making it difficult to develop an exact approach for it on the lines of available exact techniques for the VRPHTW. The VRPSTW can be solved exactly using complete enumeration or using the service start time as a continuous variable ( Tagmouti et al., 2007 ). Both of these techniques, however, require very long computation time, limiting the maximum size of instances that can be handled. Thus both the VRPHTW and the VRPSTW are placed on the two extremes of two important scales of practicality and technically feasible cost structure. The VRPHTW presents the best cost structure to be exploited by the exact optimization techniques such as Lagrangian relaxation and column generation, but it lacks the practicality found in real world logistics problems. Contrary to that, the VRPSTW provides efficient mapping of the real logistics choices as far as the economical use of resources is concerned, but its cost structure is too complex such that no exact optimization technique has been developed for this variant so far.