  The capacitated vehicle routing problem (CVRP) is a well known problem which has long been tackled by researchers for several decades now, not only because of its potential applications but also due to the fact that CVRP can be used to test the efficiency of new algorithms and optimization methods. The objective of our work is to present SR-GCWS, a hybrid algorithm that combines a CVRP classical heuristic with Monte Carlo simulation using state-of-the-art random number generators. The resulting algorithm is tested against some well-known benchmarks. In most cases, our approach is able to compete or even outperform much more complex algorithms, which is especially interesting if we consider that our algorithm does not require any previous parameter fine-tuning or set-up process. Moreover, our algorithm has been able to produce high-quality solutions almost in real-time for most tested instances. Another important feature of the algorithm worth mentioning is that it uses a randomized constructive heuristic, capable of generating hundreds or even thousands of alternative solutions with different properties. These alternative solutions, in turn, can be really useful for decision-makers in order to satisfy their utility functions, which are usually unknown by the modeler. The presented methodology may be a fine framework for the development of similar algorithms for other complex combinatorial problems in the routing arena as well as in some other research fields. Keywords Hybrid algorithms ; Heuristics ; Monte Carlo simulation ; Capacitated vehicle routing problem 1. Introduction In the capacitated vehicle routing problem (CVRP) a set of customer demands have to be served with a fleet of vehicles from a depot or central node. Each vehicle has the same capacity (homogeneous fleet) and each customer has a certain demand that must be satisfied. Additionally, there is a cost matrix that measures the costs associated with moving a vehicle from one node to another. These costs usually represent distances, traveling times, number of vehicles employed or a combination of these factors. More formally, we assume a set Ω of n  + 1 nodes, one of which represents the vehicle origin and destination (depot node) and the rest of which the delivery points (demanding nodes). The nodes are numbered from 0 to n , node 0 being the depot and the remaining n nodes the delivery points. A demand q i  > 0 of some commodity has been assigned to each non-depot node i (1 ≤  i  ≤  n ). On the other hand, E  = {( i , j )/ i , j ∈ Ω ;  i  <  j } represents the set of the n ( n  + 1)/2 existing edges connecting the n  + 1 nodes. Each of these links has an associated aprioristic cost, c ij  > 0, which represents the cost of sending a vehicle from node i to node j . These c ij are assumed to be symmetric ( c ij  =  c ji , 0 ≤  i , j  ≤  n ), and they are frequently expressed in terms of the Euclidean distance, d ij , between the two nodes. The delivery process is to be carried out by a fleet of NV vehicles (NV ≥ 1) with equal capacity, C ≫ max{ q i /1 ≤  i  ≤  n }. Some additional constraints associated with the CVRP are the following [32] : 1. Each non-depot node is supplied by a single vehicle, 2. All vehicles begin and end their routes at the depot (node 0), 3. A vehicle cannot stop twice at the same non-depot node, 4. No vehicle can be loaded exceeding its maximum capacity. Different approaches to the CVRP have been explored during the last decades [53]  and  [22] . These approaches range from the use of pure optimization methods, such as linear programming, for solving small-size problems with relatively simple constraints to the use of heuristics and meta-heuristics that provide near-optimal solutions for medium and large-size problems with more complex constraints. Most of these methods focus on minimizing an aprioristic cost function subject to a set of well-defined constraints. However, real-life problems tend to be complex enough so that not all possible costs, e.g., environmental costs, work risks, etc., constraints and desirable solution properties, e.g., time or geographical restrictions, balanced work load among routes, solution attractiveness, etc., can be considered a priori during the mathematical modeling phase [46]  and  [27] . For that reason, there is a need for more flexible methods able to provide a large set of alternative near-optimal solutions with different properties, so that decision-makers can choose among different alternative solutions according to their specific necessities and preferences, i.e., according to their utility function, which is usually unknown for the researcher. Furthermore, in a recent critical review by Laporte [29] , the author clearly states “When reporting results, most researchers concentrate on solution quality and computing time. While these two measures are undoubtedly important, they do not tell the whole story. Other qualities such as simplicity of implementation and flexibility are also important (…) It is also important to design algorithms that can easily handle the numerous side constraints that arise in practice”. Consequently, the main purpose of this paper is to present SR-GCWS (Simulation in Routing via the Generalized Clarke and Wright Savings heuristic), a hybrid algorithm that combines the parallel version of the classical Clarke and Wright Savings (CWS) heuristic with Monte Carlo simulation (MCS) and state-of-the-art random number generators to produce a set of alternative solutions for a given CVRP instance. Each solution in this set outperforms the CWS heuristic, but it also has its own characteristics and therefore constitutes an alternative possibility for the decision-maker where several side constraints can be considered. Moreover, the best solution provided by the algorithm is competitive, in terms of aprioristic costs, with the best solution found so far by using existing state-of-the-art algorithms, which tend to be more complex and difficult to implement than the method presented in this paper and, in some cases, require parameter fine-tuning or set-up processes. The rest of the paper is structured as follows: Section 2 is dedicated to background and literature review; Section 3 presents a global intuitive description of our proposed approach; Section 4 explains some technical details; Section 5 shows the pseudo-code associated with the proposed algorithm; Section 6 analyzes the suitability of our approach by carrying out several experimental tests regarding some very well known benchmark files; Section 7 discusses the main contributions of our work. Finally, Section 8 summarizes and concludes the paper. 2. Background and literature review As with many other Operations Research problems, CVRP research started with exact methodologies like linear programming, dynamic programming or branch and bound algorithms. Some noteworthy examples are the branch and cut methods in [41] , [17]  and  [2] . In [2] the authors are able to reach decent levels of performance for exact methods, where exact solutions to problems up to 100 customers are obtained. However, the success rate is variable [29] . Furthermore, the computational times are extreme in some cases and adding new real constraints is a challenge in such specialized exact methodologies. Recently, some authors have been able to extend some formulations and lower bounds to a set of different variants of the VRP [3] . As far as we know, this is a first attempt at a more general exact framework for routing problems. Reviews of exact techniques for VRP problems are available [30]  and  [52] . Unfortunately, exact techniques to more complex VRP variants are not so well performing. For example, the well-known VRP with time windows or VRPTW is significantly more challenging as far as exact methods are concerned. Accordingly, the state-of-the-art results presented in [10]  and  [26] , among many others, show techniques that solve problems with far less customers.