  After introducing the Vehicle Routing Problem with Stochastic Demands (VRPSD) and some related work, this paper proposes a flexible solution methodology. The logic behind this methodology is to transform the issue of solving a given VRPSD instance into an issue of solving a small set of Capacitated Vehicle Routing Problem (CVRP) instances. Thus, our approach takes advantage of the fact that extremely efficient metaheuristics for the CVRP already exists. The CVRP instances are obtained from the original VRPSD instance by assigning different values to the level of safety stocks that routed vehicles must employ to deal with unexpected demands. The methodology also makes use of Monte Carlo simulation (MCS) to obtain estimates of the reliability of each aprioristic solution – that is, the probability that no vehicle runs out of load before completing its delivering route – as well as for the expected costs associated with corrective routing actions (recourse actions) after a vehicle runs out of load before completing its route. This way, estimates for expected total costs of different routing alternatives are obtained. Finally, an extensive numerical experiment is included in the paper with the purpose of analyzing the efficiency of the described methodology under different uncertainty scenarios. Research highlights ► The issue of solving a VRPSD is transformed into solving several CVRPs. ► Different levels of safety stocks are considered when designing the routes. ► Solutions’ expected costs and reliability are obtained through simulation. ► No restrictive assumption on the customer demands distribution is made. Keywords Vehicle routing problem with stochastic demands ; Monte Carlo simulation ; Reliability indices ; Metaheuristics ; Hybrid algorithms 1. Introduction The Vehicle Routing Problem with Stochastic Demands (VRPSD) is a well-known NP-hard problem in which a set of customers with random demands must be served by a fleet of homogeneous vehicles departing from a depot, which initially holds all available resources. Obviously, there are some tangible costs associated with the distribution of these resources from the depot to the customers. In particular, it is usual for the model to explicitly consider costs due to moving a vehicle from one node –customer or depot – to another. These costs are often related to the total distance traveled, but they can also include other factors such as number of vehicles employed, service times for each customer. The classical goal here consists of determining the optimal solution (set of routes) that minimizes those tangible costs subject to the following constraints: (i) all routes begin and end at the depot; (ii) each vehicle has a maximum load capacity, which is considered to be the same for all vehicles; (iii) all (stochastic) customer demands must be satisfied; (iv) each customer is supplied by a single vehicle; and (v) a vehicle cannot stop twice at the same customer without incurring in a penalty cost. The study of the VRPSD is within the current popularity of introducing randomness into combinatorial problems as a way of describing new real problems in which most of the information and data cannot be known beforehand. This tendency can be observed in Van Hentenryck and Bent (2010) , which provides an interesting review of many traditional combinatorial problems with stochastic parameters. Thus, those authors studied Stochastic Scheduling, Stochastic Reservations and Stochastic Routing in order to make decisions on line, i.e., to re-optimize solutions when their initial conditions have changed and, therefore, are no longer optimal. This type of analysis has designed the Online VRP in which re-optimization is needed apart from a previous situation. This set of routing problems seems to be well analyzed with the use of stochastic hypothesis in their definitions ( Bent and Van Hentenryck, 2007 ) providing more reality in their formulation. Another routing field in which randomness has also been developed is the resolution of inventory routing problems where the product usage is stochastic ( Hemmelmayr et al., 2010 ). Bianchi et al. (2009) have written an interesting survey of the appropriate metaheuristics to solve a wide class of combinatorial optimization problems under uncertainty. This survey is a good reference for obtaining an appropriate list of articles regarding the use of metaheuristics in VRPSD and other related problems. Furthermore, it is important to recall that Vehicle Routing Problems (VRPs) constitute a relevant topic for current researchers and practitioners. In fact, according to Eksioglu et al. (2009) , the number of related articles published in refereed journals has experienced an exponential grown in the last 50 years. Notice that the main difference between the Capacitated Vehicle Routing Problem (CVRP) and the VRPSD is that in the former all customer demands are known beforehand, while in the latter the actual demand of each customer has a stochastic nature, i.e., its statistical distribution is known beforehand, but its exact value is revealed only when the vehicle reaches the customer. For the CVRP, a large set of efficient optimization methods, heuristics and metaheuristics have been already developed ( Laporte, 2007  and  Golden et al., 2008 ). However, this is not yet the case for the VRPSD, which is a more complex problem due to the uncertainty introduced by the random behavior of customer demands. Therefore, as suggested by Novoa and Storer (2009) , there is a real necessity for developing more efficient and flexible approaches for the VRPSD. On one hand, these approaches should be efficient in the sense that they should provide optimal or near-optimal solutions to small and medium VRPSD instances in reasonable times. On the other hand, they should be flexible in the sense that no further assumptions need to be made concerning the random variables used to model customer demands, e.g., these variables should not be assumed to be discrete neither to follow any particular distribution – to the best of our knowledge, most of the existing approaches to the VRPSD do not satisfy this flexibility requirement. The random behavior of customer demands could cause an expected feasible solution to become infeasible if the final demand of any route exceeds the actual vehicle capacity. This situation is referred to as “route failure”, and when it occurs, some corrective actions must be introduced to obtain a new feasible solution. For example, after a route failure, the associated vehicle might be forced to return to the depot in order to reload and resume the distribution at the last visited customer. Of course, it is also possible to consider preventive vehicle reloads even before the actual route failure occurs – e.g., when the expected demand of the next customer exceeds the current load of the vehicle. While some authors have mainly focused on modeling the costs associated with these route failures ( Tan et al., 2007 ), our approach also aims at reducing the probability of occurrence of such undesirable situations to a reasonable value – according to the decision-maker’s utility function. In other words, our methodology proposes the construction of reliable solutions, i.e., solutions with a low probability of suffering route failures. This is basically attained by constructing routes in which the associated expected demand will be somewhat lower than the vehicle capacity. Particularly, the idea is to keep a certain amount of surplus vehicle capacity (safety stock or buffer) while designing the routes so that if the final routes’ demands exceed their expected values up to a certain limit, they can be satisfied without incurring a route failure. Of course, a trade-off exists between reliability and costs minimization and, therefore, an optimal balance must be set for these two factors, which is one of the main goals of the methodology presented here. The idea itself is not new in the literature. Sungur et al. (2008) , for instance, built a robust solution approach for the VRPSD using adequate management of the remaining vehicle capacity compared to a uniform and non-uniform distribution of that slack over all the considered vehicles. However, while their goal is to find a robust solution “that optimizes the worst case value over all data uncertainty”, our goal is to find reliable solutions with optimal or pseudo-optimal total expected costs under different uncertainty scenarios. The rest of the paper is organized as follows: Section 2 contains a detailed formulation of the VRPSD, and Section 3 provides a literature review. Section 4 describes the main ideas behind our approach, and Section 5 discusses the advantages that our methodology offers over previous approaches. Section 6 presents numerical experiments that illustrate our methodology, followed by a discussion of results in Section 7 . Section 8 explains future work that we plan to perform on related topics. Finally, Acknowledgement summarizes the main contributions of this paper.