Password: This article presents a user-friendly web-based spatial decision support system (wSDSS) aimed at generating optimized vehicle routes for multiple vehicle routing problems that involve serving the demand located along arcs of a transportation network. The wSDSS incorporates Google Maps ™ (cartography and network data), a database, a heuristic and an ant-colony meta-heuristic developed by the authors to generate routes and detailed individual vehicle route maps. It accommodates realistic system specifics, such as vehicle capacity and shift time constraints, as well as network constraints such as one-way streets and prohibited turns. The wSDSS can be used for “what-if” analysis related to possible changes to input parameters such as vehicle capacity, maximum driving shift time, seasonal variations of demand, network modifications, and imposed arc orientations. Since just a web browser is needed, it can be easily adapted to be widely used in many real-world situations. The system was tested for urban trash collection in Coimbra, Portugal. Keywords Vehicle routing ; Spatial decision support systems ; Google Maps™ ; Heuristics 1. Introduction 1.1. The importance and impacts of vehicle routing problems The transportation of goods and services imposes considerable costs on both the public and private sectors of the economy as well as the environment. More efficient vehicle routing can improve a firm's competitive advantage, increase the efficiency of supplying public services, and reduce energy consumption, traffic congestion and air pollution, which are growing problems in many urban areas. Vehicle travel increased substantially in recent decades. Total vehicle miles of travel (VMT) in the United States increased 63% between 1980 and 1997 and it has more than doubled between 1970 and 2000. The rate of growth in VMT has exceeded significantly the rate of population growth, employment growth, and economic growth over the last decade of the 20th century [7] . In China total motorized passenger-km rose sixfold between 1980 and 2003, and freight distance increased nearly fivefold in that period [30] . In cities, the movement of goods may account for 20 to 30% of the total vehicle miles traveled, and for 16 to 50% of all air pollutants resulting from transportation [6] . Urban freight transportation is on one hand an important economic activity but on the other hand is rather disturbing (traffic congestion, noise and other environmental impacts). Issues related to freight transportation are pertinent in an urban context (where the number of vehicles, congestion and pollution levels are increasing fast) and therefore they need to be well understood and quantified. In what concerns environmental impacts, some recent studies emphasize the optimization of route choice based on the lowest total fuel consumption and thus the emission of CO 2 [8] . However, many see the need for a threefold strategic approach: improving fuel economy, decreasing VMT and lowering the carbon content of fuels. Woodcock et al. [30] also refer to several main strategies jointly required for moving to low-carbon transport, being shortening trip distances one of them. Similar findings are also supported by other authors (e.g., [27] ) stating that currently there are no cost-effective technological solution available for mass deployment to reduce CO 2 emissions, so the only way is to increase the use of alternative fuels, greater efficiency in fuel use, increased occupancy and load factors, and through reducing the distances travelled. This research may be included in this global strategy, as a contribution for reducing miles traveled in vehicle routing problems in an urban setting. In what concerns transportation and injuries, Woodcock et al. [30] mentioned that, because of the growth in traffic, many people are exposed to levels of kinetic energy that can result in serious injury, being estimated that in 2002 1.2 million people were killed and 50 million people were injured in road-traffic crashes, and these figures continue to rise. Moreover, heavy goods vehicles are twice as likely to be involved in fatal crashes than are cars, per kilometer travelled. Therefore, reducing VMT is also an important issue in what concerns these types of risks imposed on people's health. Dablanc [6] calls for improved logistics in European cities. Improved logistics also would benefit the United States of America where freight transportation costs account for approximately 6% of the gross domestic product (GDP) [15] . The importance of transportation problems has been acknowledged by the scientific community. However, the optimization of transportation routing is computationally intractable for most real-world problems (e.g., [9]  and  [16] ). This has justified the development of heuristic approaches to generate (optimal or near-optimal) solutions in acceptable computer times. As a consequence, the design and implementation of exact and heuristic solution algorithms for such problems constitute an interesting challenge for operations research (OR) and transportation science, both from a methodological perspective and practical decision support purposes to address all the issues mentioned above. The potential benefits of OR models and methods applied to transportation systems, having in mind the implementation in practice, has constituted a research avenue followed by the authors, namely concerning the development of strategies to deal with real-world urban vehicle collection/delivery problems [4]  and  [23] and new approaches for routing problems [22] , [24]  and  [25] . These methodological innovations were conveniently adapted and incorporated in the implementation of the web-based spatial decision support system (wSDSS) presented in this paper. 1.2. DSS and ICT in transportation problems Due to the data requirements and the complexity of urban planning and transportation problems, there has been a growing interest in the use of decision support systems (DSS) to analyze them at the operational (e.g., [17]  and  [26] ), the tactical (e.g., [18] ) and the strategic planning levels (e.g., [5]  and  [29] ). Adequate graphical interfaces are important to represent solutions in routing problems given their strong spatial component. Information and communication technologies (ICT) can play an important role for constructing tools embedding algorithms, graphical interfaces and access to remote data through the Internet. Due to the spatial nature of these problems, geographical information systems (GIS) have been a natural component of such DSS as they are important tools for collecting, organizing, and displaying spatial data in a large variety of planning applications, such as in vehicle routing problems [20]  and  [23] . Hans [11] enhanced the importance of the development of GIS for urban transportation planning and modeling, including network-based urban transportation planning, and the incorporation of network data into a GIS framework in order to have a high-speed interactive system suitable for providing near real-time alternatives and policy analysis. Although transportation research has been “late to embrace GIS as a key technology to support its research and operational needs” [28] , there has been an increase of such research in recent years. Much of this research also incorporates exact and heuristic solution algorithms with the GIS (e.g., [1] , [5] , [12] , [17] , [19] , [23]  and  [26] ). The development of decision support tools profiting from state-of-the-art ICT is an important avenue of research. World Wide Web technologies have transformed the design, development, implementation and deployment of DSS; however, it is recognized that the use of Web-based computation to deploy DSS applications for remote access remains less common [3] . In the field of transportation, some recent developments can be found, e.g., Ray [21] has developed a web-based spatial DSS for managing the movement of oversize and overweight vehicles over highways. The importance of ICT, besides GIS technology, is acknowledged in several fields related to transportation [2]  and  [14] . In what concerns transportation problems, the Internet enables the implementation of web-based GIS systems, allowing users to interact with networks, maps, and GIS tools through a browser (e.g., [20] ). The Internet potentiates new approaches due to two principal reasons: the advanced capabilities offered, unique amongst other ICTs, and because of its widespread adoption [13] .