Password: This paper considers the problem of designing districts for vehicle routing problems with stochastic demands. In particular, demands are assumed to be uncertain at the time when the districts are made, and these are revealed only after the districting decisions are determined. Tabu search and multistart heuristics for this stochastic districting problem are developed and compared. Computational results show that tabu search is superior over multistart. Keywords Districting ; Vehicle routing ; Tabu search ; Stochastic programming Districting involves partitioning customer locations into districts according to some criteria. In general, these criteria include contiguity and balance constraints. Each district is independently responsible for the operations performed within its borders. One possible operation is the determination of vehicle routes. From a planning perspective, there is a fundamental difference between districting and routing. While districting decisions are made at a strategic or tactical management level, routing decisions are operational and made on a regular basis. It is possible to achieve long-term savings when designing districts because of the impact of this decision on routing. Some typical applications of districting include the design of political constituencies ( Bozkaya et al., 2003 ), of sales territories ( Fleischmann and Paraschis, 1988 , Skiera and Albers, 1998  and  Drexl and Haase, 1999 ), of emergency and health care zones ( Pezzella et al., 1981  and  Blais et al., 2003 ), of school boards ( Ferland and Guénette, 1990 ), of police districts ( D’Amico et al., 2002 ), etc. In this paper, we focus on the design of delivery districts for the vehicle routing problem with stochastic demands. The vehicle routing problem   (VRP) is defined on a complete graph G=(V,A) G = ( V , A ) , where V={0,1,…,n} V = { 0 , 1 , … , n } is the set of vertices with 1, …,  n   representing customers, and 0 denoting the depot, and A={(i,j):i,j∈V,i≠j} A = { ( i , j ) : i , j ∈ V , i ≠ j } is the arc set. With every vertex i  > 0 is associated a nonnegative demand D i . With each arc ( i ,  j ) is associated a least travel cost c ij so that ( c ij ) satisfies the triangle inequality. A fleet of m homogenous vehicles of capacity q is stationed at the depot. The classical VRP consists of designing m delivery routes such that (i) every route starts and ends at the depot; (ii) every customer is visited exactly once; and (iii) the total demand of any vehicle route does not exceed q . An overview of the VRP can be found at Laporte and Semet, 2002  and  Gendreau et al., 2002 . In this article we consider the stochastic vehicle routing problem (SVRP), in which demands D i are random variables. (Other classes of stochastic VRPs, namely with random travel times or customer presence are described in Gendreau et al. (1996) .) In the SVRP, vehicle routes are planned in the first stage, and demands are only revealed later. As a result, some vehicle routes may violate the capacity constraints, i.e. route failures may occur. There exist different recourse policies to handle these situations. One possible policy is to follow the planned route until the vehicle is emptied, return to the depot to replenish, and then continue with the deliveries at the customer on the planned route where the failure occurred. Other policies, producing lower second stage costs, consist of planning preventive breaks (returns to the depot) in anticipation of future higher demands or of reoptimizing the remaining portion of the planned route after each customer visit (see, e.g., Dror et al., 1989 ). We consider the problem of partitioning a set of customers into at most m contiguous districts such that all customers within the same district are serviced by the same vehicle. The allocation of customers to districts is fixed, even if a different district solution could prove more cost effective if a different demand pattern occurred. The actual demand is observed only after the districts have been defined, and a travel plan must be produced within each district. This approach makes sense from a managerial point of view since district boundaries tend to remain the same over time while customer demand varies from day to day. Such situations arise commonly in contexts where delivery districts are fixed and defined by grouping together smaller units such as postal code areas. The idea of having districts is usually motivated by the drivers’ need to be acquainted with their area and customer base. Parcel and furniture delivery districts are prime examples of this type of arrangement. Since we assume that routing decisions are not fixed until the demand is observed, the VRP to be solved in the route planning phase is deterministic. Demands are revealed before the vehicles leave the depot, and our recourse policy is to plan breaks so as to minimize the routing cost. The breaks must be positioned such that the total demand realized in each subtour does not exceed the vehicle capacity. In the first stage, however, demand must be considered as a stochastic variable, and the goal is to define the districts in such a way that the expected total travel cost is minimized. A formal description of the problem is provided in Section 2 . Solutions fulfilling this goal typically consist of districts leaving a fair amount of flexibility in the routing decisions, that is an ability to adjust to the actual demand. The most flexible partition of the customers is obviously obtained by defining one all-inclusive district and leave the others empty. This would however lead to extreme expected travel cost for one district, while there would be no cost associated with the others. In order to balance the districts more evenly, we impose the constraint that the districts have to be constructed in such a way that the actual travel cost within each district never exceeds a given upper bound. Without such a constraint the planned solution would always consist of a single district, which does not make much practical sense. The remainder of the paper is organized as follows. Section 2 provides a formulation of the model. The approach of approximating the expected cost is described in Section 3 . A tabu search heuristic and a multistart heuristic are presented in Sections 4  and  5 , respectively. This is followed by computational results in Section 6 , and by the conclusion in Section 7 . 2. Model formulation The problem just described can be modeled as a two-stage stochastic program with recourse . In the first stage, the districting decisions are made, while in the second stage one VRP is solved for each district. The constraint relative to the composition of a district is that the travel cost is no larger than a given number.