Password: The subject of this paper is a two-phase hybrid metaheuristic for the vehicle routing problem with time windows and a central depot (VRPTW). The objective function of the VRPTW considered here combines the minimization of the number of vehicles (primary criterion) and the total travel distance (secondary criterion). The aim of the first phase is the minimization of the number of vehicles by means of a ( μ , λ )-evolution strategy, whereas in the second phase the total distance is minimized using a tabu search algorithm. The two-phase hybrid metaheuristic was subjected to a comparative test on the basis of 356 problems from the literature with sizes varying from 100 to 1000 customers. The derived results show that the proposed two-phase approach is very competitive. Keywords Metaheuristics ; Tabu search ; Evolution strategy ; Hybridization ; Vehicle routing ; Time windows 1. Introduction and problem formulation The vehicle routing problem with time windows (VRPTW) is an extension of the well-known vehicle routing problem (VRP). It can be described as follows (cf. Homberger and Gehring, 1999 ): a number of n customers are to be serviced from a depot with vehicles of the same capacity Q . The demand q i of each customer i , i =1,…, n , is to be covered by exactly one service within a given time window. The locations of the depot and of the customers and the shortest distances and the corresponding travel times between two locations are given. The objective is to determine a feasible route schedule which primarily minimizes the number of vehicles and secondarily the total travel distance. According to Lenstra and Rinnooy Kan (1981) , the VRPTW belongs to the class of the NP-hard combinatorial optimization problems. The VRPTW in particular is still “much more difficult” to solve than the VRP (cf. Solomon and Desrosiers, 1988 ). Hence, primarily heuristic procedures are suggested for larger problem instances of the VRPTW. In the recent past, quite good results have been achieved for the VRPTW with metaheuristics. Two groups of metaheuristics seem to be appropriate for solving the VRPTW: (1) Metaheuristics controlling local search processes, such as tabu search (see Potvin et al., 1996 , Taillard et al., 1997 , Chiang and Russell, 1997 , Schulze and Fahle, 1999 ), simulated annealing (see Chiang and Russell, 1996 ), genetic algorithms (see Thangiah et al., 1991 , Potvin and Bengio, 1996 ), evolution strategies (see Homberger and Gehring, 1999 ), large neighborhood search ( Shaw, 1998 ), and guided local seach ( Kilby et al., 1999 ); and (2) metaheuristics controlling a subordinate construction heuristic, such as the greedy randomized search procedure from Kontoravdis and Bard (1995) , the RNET metaheuristic from Liu and Shen (1999) and multiple ant colony systems as proposed by Gambardella et al. (1999) . Only a few authors report on the solution to the VRPTW by means of hybrid approaches. As Glover et al. (1995) and Osman and Kelly (1997) have pointed out, hybrid approaches focus on enhancing the strengths and compensating for the weaknesses of two or more complementary approaches. The aim is the generation of better solutions by combining the key elements of competing methodologies. Thangiah et al. (1995) have proposed a two-phase hybrid metaheuristic for the VRPTW which is based on this idea. The best individual determined by a genetic algorithm in the first search phase is passed over to a tabu search algorithm which improves the received solution in the second search phase. The tabu search algorithm, on the other hand, includes an element of the simulated annealing concept. This element is used to control the selection of neighborhood solutions. Chiang and Russell (1996) propose a hybrid method which repeatedly carries out two subsequent steps. Partial routes constructed in the first step are improved by simulated annealing in the second step. In the simulated annealing steps a tabu list is used to avoid cycling. In this paper a two-phase approach for solving the VRPTW is presented which takes advantage of the hybridization concept. A ( μ , λ )-evolution strategy is used to minimize the number of vehicles in the first search phase. In the second search phase the total travel distance is minimized with a tabu search algorithm. The method described is based on a study by Gehring and Homberger (1999) , who used a similar two-phase method within a parallel solution strategy. In contrast to this earlier two-phase method, which is only very roughly described in Gehring and Homberger (1999) , a ( μ , λ )-evolution strategy, instead of a (1, λ )-evolution strategy, and a different move-generation mechanism is now used in the first search phase. Further differences in the first search phase concern the termination criterion for the first phase. In the second search phase a slightly modified tabu search algorithm is used to minimize the total travel distance. Again, the modification concerns the termination criterion. The evaluation of the total procedure is based on the well-known problems from Solomon (1987) , but, in contrast to other studies, also on more realistically sized test problems as proposed by the authors. The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Section 2 describes the two-phase hybrid metaheuristic. In Section 3 the performance of this approach is demonstrated by means of a comparative test, including methods from other authors. 2. A two-phase hybrid metaheuristic for the VRPTW The simultaneous reduction of the number of vehicles and of the total travel distance by means of a metaheuristic controlling a neighborhood search may have specific shortcomings. Since, in general, more than one customer, and possibly even a large number of customers, is serviced within a route, the reduction of the number of vehicles usually requires extensive changes to existing solutions. On the other hand, only slight modifications of existing solutions are carried out within one iteration of a neighborhood search or a metaheuristic, respectively. Therefore, the probability of reducing the vehicle number in one iteration is extremely low, and even lower when the distribution of the customers to be serviced over a smaller number of routes is severely hindered by the time window constraints (cf. Gietz, 1994 ). For these reasons, the search process is more or less guided by the secondary optimization goal, and the primary criterion (the minimization of the vehicle number) falls behind. Because the criteria are often in conflict, it appears plausible that minimization of the total travel distance does not inevitably lead to a reduction in the number of vehicles. This also applies if the minimization of the total schedule time, instead of the travel distance, is used as the secondary optimization goal. According to Neitzel (1977) , there exists a similar conflict between the minimization of the number of vehicles and the minimization of the total schedule time. Therefore the following analysis covers this case as well. In order to overcome the problems outlined above, we propose a two-phase metaheuristic that explicitly considers the primary criterion. The metaheuristic also takes advantage of the hybridization concept and combines a ( μ , λ )-evolution strategy and a subsequent tabu search. During the first phase, when the ( μ , λ )-evolution strategy is applied, the goal of minimizing the total travel distance is ignored and the search process is exclusively dedicated to the reduction of the number of vehicles. The reasons for choosing a ( μ , λ )-evolution strategy for the first phase are the following: first, evolution strategies are well-suited for leaving local optima, since they are based on a stochastic search model (cf. Ablay, 1987 ). The possibility to leave local optima is an important issue for the search for solutions containing routes with a smaller number of vehicles. If, for example, the smallest route of a solution contains only one client and this client can, due to the problem constraints, not be assigned to another route, then it might be better to temporarily accept smallest routes with a higher number of clients, since one of these routes could consist of clients that can be assigned completely to other routes. Second, the search behaviour of evolution strategies can easily be controlled by the two parameters μ and λ . This will be explained later, when μ and λ are introduced. The best solution found in the first search phase, which always comprises a minimum number of vehicles, is passed over to the second phase. No problems arise with the encoding of transferred solutions, since an identical encoding is used in both phases: solutions to the problem are represented by sequence vectors indicating the order in which the customers are served. In the second phase a tabu search is carried out. The goal now pursued is solely the minimization of the total travel distance, i.e., no attempts are made to reduce the number of vehicles still further. The structure chart shown in Fig. 1 describes the overall two-phase search process.