Password: In this paper we review the exact algorithms based on the branch and bound approach proposed in the last years for the solution of the basic version of the vehicle routing problem (VRP), where only the vehicle capacity constraints are considered. These algorithms have considerably increased the size of VRPs that can be solved with respect to earlier approaches. Moreover, at least for the case in which the cost matrix is asymmetric, branch and bound algorithms still represent the state-of-the-art with respect to the exact solution. Computational results comparing the performance of different relaxations and algorithms on a set of benchmark instances are presented. We conclude by examining possible future directions of research in this field. Keywords Vehicle routing problem ; Exact algorithms ; Branch and bound ; Relaxations 1. Introduction The vehicle routing problem (VRP) is one of the most studied among the combinatorial optimization problems, due both to its practical relevance and to its considerable difficulty. The VRP is concerned with the determination of the optimal routes used by a fleet of vehicles, based at one or more depots, to serve a set of customers. Many additional requirements and operational constraints are imposed on the route construction in practical applications of the VRP. For example, the service may involve both deliveries and collections, the load along each route must not exceed the given capacity of the vehicles, the total length of each route must not be greater than a prescribed limit, the service of the customers must occur within given time windows, the fleet may contain heterogeneous vehicles, precedence relations may exist between the customers, the customer demands may not be completely known in advance, the service of a customer may be split among different vehicles, and some problem characteristics, as the demands or the travel times, may vary dynamically. We consider the static and deterministic basic version of the problem, known as the capacitated VRP (CVRP). In the CVRP all the customers correspond to deliveries, the demands are deterministic, known in advance and may not be split, the vehicles are identical and are based at a single central depot, only the capacity restrictions for the vehicles are imposed, and the objective is to minimize the total cost (i.e., the number of routes and/or their length or travel time) needed to serve all the customers. Generally, the travel cost between each pair of customer locations is the same in both directions, i.e., the resulting cost matrix is symmetric , whereas in some applications, as the distribution in urban areas with one-way directions imposed on the roads, the cost matrix is asymmetric . The CVRP has been extensively studied since the early sixties and in the last years many new heuristic and exact approaches were presented. The largest problems which can be consistently solved by the most effective exact algorithms proposed so far contain about 50 customers, whereas larger instances may be solved only in particular cases. So instances with hundreds of customers, as those arising in practical applications, may only be tackled with heuristic methods. The CVRP extends the well-known Traveling Salesman Problem (TSP), calling for the determination of the circuit with associated minimum cost, visiting exactly once a given set of points. Therefore, many exact approaches for the CVRP were inherited from the huge and successful work done for the exact solution of the TSP. Laporte and Nobert [32] presented an extensive survey which was entirely devoted to exact methods for the VRP and gave a complete and detailed analysis of the state of the art up to the late eighties. The aim of the present work is to provide an update of that survey, describing the algorithms recently proposed for the exact solution of CVRP both for the case with symmetric and asymmetric cost matrices. Up to the end of the last decade the most effective exact approaches for the CVRP were mainly branch and bound algorithms using basic relaxations, as the assignment problem and the shortest spanning tree. Recently, more sophisticated bounds were proposed, as those based on Lagrangian relaxations or on the additive approach, which increased the size of the problems that can be solved to optimality by branch and bound. Moreover, following the success obtained by branch and cut methods for the TSP, encouraging results were obtained by using these algorithms for the CVRP. In this work we treat separately problems with symmetric and asymmetric cost matrices. In fact, although the symmetric problems are special cases of the asymmetric ones, the latter were much less studied in the literature and the exact methods developed for them have in general a poor performance when applied to symmetric instances. Analogously, not all the approaches proposed for symmetric problems may be directly adapted to solve also asymmetric ones. In the following, we will denote with SCVRP and ACVRP the symmetric and asymmetric CVRP, respectively. Moreover, when the explicit distinction between the two versions is not needed, we simply use CVRP. Other surveys covering exact algorithms, but often mainly devoted to heuristic methods, were presented by Christofides et al. [10] , Magnanti [37] , Bodin et al. [4] , Christofides [7] , Laporte [29] , Fisher [22] , Toth and Vigo [45] and Golden et al. [25] . An annotated bibliography was recently proposed by Laporte [30] , whereas an extensive bibliography was presented by Laporte and Osman [34] . A book on the subject was edited by Golden and Assad [24] . The work is organized as follows. In Section 2 we give a detailed description of CVRP as a graph theoretic problem, and introduce the corresponding notation. In Section 3 we consider the more general case of ACVRP, where the cost matrix is asymmetric, illustrating the branch and bound algorithms proposed by Laporte et al. [31] and by Fischetti et al. [18] . In Section 4 we examine the exact methods proposed for the more widely studied SCVRP. In particular, we discuss the basic relaxations based on K -tree and b -matching and their strengthening in a Lagrangian fashion proposed by Fisher [20] and Miller [40] , respectively. We also briefly discuss the set-partitioning based relaxations used by Hadjcostantinou et al. [26] . Computational results comparing the performance of different relaxations and algorithms on a set of benchmark instances are presented. Finally, in Section 5 , we draw some conclusions and discuss future directions of research. The information about the performance, expressed in Mflops, of the computers used for testing the algorithms presented are taken (when available) from Dongarra [15] . Moreover, all the computational results reported in this paper are performed by using well-known test instances from the literature. As proposed in Vigo [48] , the instances are identified with a name whose first character denotes the problem type (A, E and S for asymmetric, Euclidean and other symmetric problems, respectively), then the name includes the number of vertices, depot included, and the number of available vehicles, and the last letter indicates the source of the instance. For example, E051-05e is the famous 50 customers problem Euclidean described in Christofides and Eilon [8] . 2. Problem definition and notation The CVRP may be defined as the following graph theoretic problem. Let G =( V , A ) be a complete graph where V ={0,…, n } is the vertex set and A is the arc set. Vertices j =1,…, n correspond to the customers, each with a known nonnegative demand , d j , to be delivered, whereas vertex 0 corresponds to the depot (with a fictitious demand d 0 =0). Given a customer set S ⊆ V , let d ( S )=∑ j ∈ S d j denote the total demand of the set. A nonnegative cost , c ij is associated with each arc ( i , j )∈ A and represents the travel cost spent to go from vertex i to vertex j . Generally, the use of the loop arcs, ( i , i ), is not allowed and this is imposed by defining c ii =+∞ for all i ∈ V . If the cost matrix is asymmetric, A is a set of directed arcs and the corresponding problem is called asymmetric CVRP (ACVRP). Otherwise, i.e., when c ij = c ji for all i , j ∈ V , the problem is called symmetric CVRP (SCVRP) and the arc set A is often replaced by a set of undirected edges, E . In the following, we denote the undirected edge set of graph G by A when edges are indicated by means of their endpoints ( i , j ), i , j ∈ V , and by E when edges are indicated through a single index e . Given a vertex set S ⊂ V , let δ ( S ) and σ ( S ) denote the set of edges e ∈ E (or arcs ( i , j )∈ A ) which have only one or both endpoints in S , respectively. As usual, when single vertices i ∈ V are considered, we write δ ( i ) rather than δ ({ i }). Graph G is generally assumed to be complete (i.e., it includes the arcs connecting all the vertex pairs, possibly with the exception of loops) since this simplifies the notation. If this is not the case, a complete graph may be easily obtained by assigning an infinite cost value to nonexisting arcs.