Password: The routing of a fleet of vehicles to service a set of customers is important in the field of distribution. Vehicle routing problems (VRP) arise in many real-life applications within transportation and logistics. In this paper, we study a variant of the general VRP, VRP with time windows and split deliveries (VRPTWSD). Time constrained routing is relevant for applications where a schedule has to be followed. The option of splitting a demand makes it possible to service a customer whose demand exceeds the vehicle capacity. Splitting also allows to decrease costs. Although VRPTWSD is a relaxation of the VRP with time windows, the problem does not become easier to solve, and is still NP-hard. In this work, we propose a solution method based on tabu search for solving the VRPTWSD without imposing any restrictions on the split delivery options. We also give an analysis of experimental results on problems with 100 customers. Keywords Vehicle routing ; Time windows ; Split deliveries ; Tabu search 1. Introduction Vehicle routing problems (VRP) are concerned with the distribution of goods, people or information between depots and customers. Vehicle routing problems arise in many real-life applications within transportation and logistics, such as school bus routing, postal deliveries, transportation of handicapped persons and food distribution. This paper considers the vehicle routing problem with time windows and split deliveries (VRPTWSD). Given a fleet of homogeneous vehicles stationed at a central depot and a set of customers requiring their demands to be fulfilled, the problem consists of finding vehicle routes starting and ending at the depot such that every customer is visited. The routes must also meet the time windows defined by the customers, which specify when the start of service can occur. Sometimes it is not realistic that a customer's demand must be delivered by a single vehicle. By allowing deliveries to be split, a customer may be serviced by more than one vehicle. The objective of the VRPTWSD consists of minimizing the number of vehicles and, for the minimum number of vehicles, to minimize the total distance traveled. Since the VRPTWSD is NP-hard (see Lenstra and Rinnooy Kan [1] , Dror and Trudeau [2] ), instances of realistic size are difficult to solve to optimality. As a way out, metaheuristics are often used to find good solutions to various routing problems in reasonable time. The past years, quite good results have been achieved for the vehicle routing problem with time windows (VRPTW), in both the classes of exact methods and metaheuristics. Surveys can be found in Toth and Vigo [3, Chapter 7] and Golden and Assad [4] . Bräysy and Gendreau [5] give an excellent overview over metaheuristics for the VRPTW. The vehicle routing problem with split deliveries (VRPSD) was introduced by Dror and Trudeau in 1989. They showed how split deliveries could result in savings, both in the total distance traveled and the number of vehicles utilized. The VRPSD is a relaxation of the classical vehicle routing problem, but it remains NP-hard (see Dror and Trudeau [2] ). Dror et al. [6] described an integer programming formulation of the problem and developed several classes of valid constraints. They also developed an exact constraint relaxation branch and bound algorithm for the VRPSD. Frizzell and Giffin [7]  and  [8] studied the problem with grid network distances, whereas they also considered time windows constraints in their second publication. Their proposed heuristics are especially tailored for the problems and this kind of network structure. Mullaseril et al. [9] presented a heuristic for the split-delivery capacitated rural postman problem with time windows on arcs. Their heuristic is similar to the one proposed by Dror and Trudeau [10]  and  [2] , and is applied to a real-life problem of managing the trucks for distributing feed in a cattle ranch in Arizona. Belenguer et al. [11] studied the polyhedron of the VRPSD and together with a new class of valid inequalities, a lower bound for the problem is developed. In this paper, we develop a tabu search heuristic for the VRPTWSD where our strategy is different from Dror and Trudeau's [2] . Their work is a two-stage algorithm, where the first stage constructs a VRP solution using node interchanges, and the second stage improves the VRP solution by introducing and eliminating splits. Our algorithm does not separate this from one another, it looks at all this in parallel. We have a pool of solutions that are defined by different move operators, the heuristic does not specifically choose to do node interchanges or split the deliveries. That is left to be decided by the heuristic according to the pool of solutions. The best solution in the current pool is always chosen. It could be a split delivery, split-elimination or just a simple node interchange. The rest of this paper is organized as follows: In Section 2 we give the formulation of the problem, some definitions and notation, and a theoretical result on which our solution method relies. The tabu search heuristic based on a union of four sets from four different move operators is described in Section 3 , whereas experimental results are given in Section 4 . Finally, conclusions are drawn in Section 5 . 2. Problem formulation and definitions In this section we define the problem under study, and the notation used throughout the paper. Customers . The problem is given by a set of customers C ={1,2,…, n }, residing at n different locations. Letting 0 denote the location of the depot, N = C ∪{0} becomes the set of all locations considered in the problem. Every pair of locations ( i , j ), where i , j ∈ N and i ≠ j , is associated with a cost of traveling d ij and a travel time t ij . Every customer i ∈ C has a demand w i >0. Vehicles . A set, V, of vehicles with identical capacities, m, is given. The vehicle set is later referred to as the fleet . Time windows . Each customer i ∈ C has a time window , i.e. an interval , where a i and b i are the earliest and latest time to start to service customer i. A vehicle may arrive at customer location i before a i , but cannot start servicing until the time window opens at a i . A vehicle cannot arrive at customer location i after the time window closes at b i . The depot also has a time window [ a 0 , b 0 ], expressing that vehicles can leave the depot no earlier than a 0 and return no later than b 0 . Split deliveries . The demand of a customer may be fulfilled by more than one vehicle. This occurs in all instances where some demand exceeds the vehicle capacity, but can also turn out to be cost effective in other cases. For each arc ( i , j ), where i,j∈N,i≠j (with the exception of i = j =0 meaning a vehicle drives an empty route), and for each vehicle k, we define x ijk as The decision variable f ik is defined for each customer i and each vehicle k and denotes the fraction of demand of customer i delivered by vehicle k. The last decision variable s ik denotes the time vehicle k starts to service customer i, where we assume s 0 k = a 0 for all k. We let x, f and s be matrices of appropriate dimensions holding all decision variables.