  The main purpose of this study is to find out the best solution of the vehicle routing problem simultaneously considering heterogeneous vehicles, double trips, and multiple depots by using a hybrid genetic algorithm. This study suggested a mathematical programming model with a new numerical formula which presents the amount of delivery and sub-tour elimination. This model gives an optimal solution by using OPL-STUDIO(ILOG CPLEX). This study also suggests a hybrid genetic algorithm (HGA) which considers the improvement of generation for an initial solution, three different heuristic processes, and a float mutation rate for escaping from the local solution in order to find the best solution. The suggested HGA is also compared with the results of a general genetic algorithm and existing problems suggested by Eilon and Fisher. We found better solutions rather than the existing genetic algorithms. Keywords Hybrid genetic algorithm ; Heterogeneous VRP ; Multiple depots ; Double trips Nomenclature n number of all demand points including two depots, i  = {0, 1, …,  N ,  N  + 1} t number of vehicles, t  = {1, 2, …,  T } B 1 number of vehicles in the first depot B 2 number of vehicles in the second depot D n demand for each demand point n d ij distance from point i to point j C t capacity for vehicle t C max_ t maximum capacity for vehicle t H int loading capacity for vehicle t when it moves from point i to point n V number of double trips x ijt  = 1 vehicle t moves from point i to point j   = 0 The vehicle routing problem (VRP) can be described as the problem of designing optimal delivery or collection routes from one or several depot(s) to a number of geographically scattered customers subject to side constraints. The objective is to find a set of routes which minimizes the total distance traveled. The VRP is categorized by HVRP, CVRP, MDVRP, VRPTW, SVRP, VRPPD, and so on with different constraints ( Bodin, Golden, & Bender, 1983 ). The vehicle routing problem, which is used in practice, considers these constraints simultaneously. However, only one or two constraint(s) have been examined in past research. It was also assumed that the demand at any demand point did not exceed the loading capability ( Danzig & Ramser, 1959 ). When demand exceeded capability, another vehicle would be needed. Therefore, the opportunity for optimization was often lost ( Shin & Kang, 1991 ). Heterogeneous vehicles, double trips, and multiple depots were considered in this study in order to overcome this weakness of the past researches. It is possible to formulate this problem by using a mathematical programming model ( Magnanti & Wong, 1981 ). However, it is categorized as an NP-hard problem according its complexity as indicated by Lenstra and Rinnooy (1981) . Various mathematical formulations of the VRP were given by Laporte (1992) . As the size of problem gets larger, it is nearly impossible to get a solution. Therefore, different approaches, tabu search ( Barabarosoglu and Ozgur, 1999 , Gendreau et al., 1994 , Osman, 1993  and  Rego and Roucairol, 1996 ), simulated annealing ( Hiquebran et al., 1994  and  Osman, 1993 ), genetic algorithms, and ant colony optimization have been ( Bullnheimer, Hartl, & Strauss, 1999 ; Gambardella, Taillard, & Agazzi, 1999 ) developed so far. Applications of genetic algorithms have been reported for the VRP with time windows ( Blanton and Wainwright, 1993 , Potvin and Bengio, 1996  and  Schmitt, 1994 ; Thangiah et al., 1991  and  Thangiah et al., 1993 ), backhauls ( Potvin et al., 1996a  and  Potvin et al., 1996b ), multi-depot routing problem ( Salhi, Thangiah, & Rahman, 1998 ), and a school bus routing problem ( Thangiah & Nygard, 1992 ). A hybrid approach to the vehicle routing problem using neural networks and genetic algorithms has also been reported ( Potvin et al., 1996a  and  Potvin et al., 1996b ). However, genetic algorithms do not appear to have made a great impact on the basic VRP, which is competitive with other modern heuristics in terms of computing time and a solution quickly. The aim of this study is to suggest a hybrid genetic algorithm (HGA) which considers the improvement of generations for an initial solution, three different heuristic processes, and a float mutation rate for escaping from the local solution in order to find the best solution of the basic VRP with heterogeneous vehicles, double trips, and multiple depots. 2. Mathematical programming model Assume the position and demand at each demand point are known. The type and number of vehicles at two depots ( B 1 and B 2 ) are also given. These assumptions include the following: a. The vehicles must return to the starting depot. b. Each vehicle may visit all the demand points twice. c. The loading capacity for the route does not exceed the capacity of the vehicle.