Password: The problem studied in this paper is different from the basic vehicle routing problem in that the vehicles do not return to the distribution depot after delivering the goods to the customers or, if they do so, they must visit the same customers, for the collection of goods, in the reverse order. The practical importance of this problem has been established some decades ago, but it has received very little attention from researchers. In this paper we present a new tabu search algorithm that explores the structure of this type of problem and we compare its performance with another heuristic designed for the same purpose, which has been published recently. Keywords Vehicle routing ; Tabu search ; Open vehicle routing ; Hamiltonian path 1. Introduction The open vehicle routing problem (OVRP) consists of defining the best routes for a fleet of vehicles that must service a set of customers with a given demand and known geographical location. Each route is a sequence of customers that starts at the depot and finishes at one of the customers. The constraints considered in this problem are the following: all the vehicles have the same capacity; the travelling time of each vehicle should not exceed a given threshold, which is defined by the drivers' legal travelling time; the total demand of all the customers on a route must not exceed the capacity of the vehicle; each customer is visited just once by one of the vehicles, and its requirements must be completely fulfilled. The objective is to minimise the number of vehicles (we assume that each vehicle travels exactly one route) and, for a given number of vehicles, to minimise the total distance (or time) travelled by the vehicles. We assume that the OVRP studied here is undirected but the same algorithm and computer programmes can be used for solving the directed case without any modification. However, a procedure for determining the initial solution and another for improving a route require some modifications, but these are alternative procedures inside the main algorithm. The major difference between the OVRP and the well-known vehicle routing problem (VRP) is that in the OVRP each route is a Hamiltonian path , instead of a Hamiltonian cycle as it happens in the VRP. This difference is due to the fact that the vehicles do not return to the starting depot or, if they do so, they make exactly the same trip in the opposite order for the collection of goods from the customers. In practice this happens, for example, when a company contracts common carriers for the distribution of its goods since, after visiting the last customer of the route, the vehicles do not need to return to the depot. We can easily show that the OVRP is NP-hard, because for its resolution it is necessary to find the best Hamiltonian path for each set of customers assigned to a vehicle. Since this subproblem is NP-hard, as stated, for example, by Syslo et al. (1983) , because it can be converted into an equivalent Hamiltonian cycle, the whole problem is also NP-hard. The VRP has been widely studied by different researchers during the last three decades, and many good algorithms have been created for its resolution. A classical survey of the VRP and many of its extensions and applications is given by Bodin et al. (1983) . Among others more recent surveys, we can cite Laporte (1992) and the book edited by Crainic and Laporte (1998) . Since the exact algorithms are still unable to solve most of the practical examples, the algorithms used in practice are the approximate ones. The best of these algorithms can find the optimal or near optimal solutions in a very reasonable computing time. Among these we can mention those given by Osman (1993) , Taillard (1993) , Gendreau et al. (1994) , Rochat and Taillard (1995) , Brandão (2001) and, more recently, Toth and Vigo (submitted) . This last algorithm has the particularity of finding very good solutions in a short computing time, due to the reduction of the size of the neighbourhoods by exploring only the most potentially promising moves. Since there are such good algorithms for the VRP, why not try solving the OVRP as a VRP and, in the end, for each VRP route, delete the largest edge between the depot and the adjacent customers? There are two reasons for not doing this: the computing time is much higher and the solutions are worse than using a specific algorithm for the OVRP. An optimal VRP solution can originate a bad OVRP solution by that process and vice versa. Furthermore, if maximum route length constraints are present, this approach is even less appropriate, because an infeasible VRP solution may correspond to a feasible OVRP solution. Our algorithm for the OVRP has been adapted from a VRP algorithm ( Brandão, 2001 ) in order to take into account the many similarities between both problems but, at the same time, to explore the differences. Contrary to the VRP, the OVRP has only been studied by very few people. So far as we know, the first author to mention the OVRP was Schrage (1981) in an article dedicated to the description of realistic routing problems, bringing attention to some of its applications. However, in terms of resolution methods for the OVRP, we are only aware of two studies: one is described in Bodin et al. (1983) and another is due to Sariklis and Powell (2000) . The first one refers to a real problem of express airmail distribution in the USA and contains many practical features such as delivery or pickup time windows, total route length and capacity of the plain. The authors of the study solved two routing problems separately, one for deliveries and another for the pickups. The authors used the Clarke and Wright savings algorithm with the necessary modifications for taking into account the open routes (“incomplete”, as they say) and all the other constraints that do not belong to basic VRP. Sariklis and Powell's (2000) research is only theoretical and applied to the symmetric OVRP, without considering a maximum route length. They present a new algorithm that comprises two phases: phase I and phase II. In phase I, the customers are assigned to clusters, taking into account the capacity constraint and trying to create the minimum number of clusters. After this, reassignments of customers to different clusters are performed, according to some given rules, with the aim of reducing the travelling cost. In phase II, each cluster is transformed into an open route, starting with a minimum spanning tree (MST) and then applying to it a set of operations with the objective of converting it into a minimum cost path. When designing our algorithm we had in mind two goals: (i) To keep it simple, we only apply the basic principles of the tabu search theory, without using other refinements that usually make the algorithms much more complex, less efficient computationally, and whose marginal benefit in terms of solution quality is normally low or null. Obviously, we try to use those tabu search concepts that we consider most important after several years of experience in using tabu search with different types of problems, as in Brandão and Mercer (1997) and Brandão (2001) . There are already many studies that demonstrate the great potential of the tabu search methodology for solving combinatorial problems and, in particular, vehicle routing problems. Nevertheless, this research will show it even more clearly, since our comparison is made with an heuristic carefully designed for the OVRP structure, but that is quickly trapped in a local optimum. (ii) To explore the structure of the OVRP in order to enhance the quality of the solutions in a short computing time. 2. The initial solution Any tabu search algorithm requires an initial solution from which all search process begins, namely the definition of the neighbourhood and the consequent first move. Most of the studies that apply tabu search, and in particular those dedicated to VRP problems, pay little attention to the initial solution. Generally, the initial solution is trivial, such as assigning each customer to a route, or is obtained with a fast and well-known heuristic. We think that the main reasons for this have been the belief that the initial solution has very little influence on the quality of the final solution, and the need for finding a starting solution very quickly, leaving all the improvement work for the tabu search algorithm. This practice has not impeded the attainment of very good results, because the tabu search is in fact very powerful when correctly applied. However, as we will show in this article, the initial solution can be calculated quickly and still give an important contribution to enhance the final solution. In relation to this, we should mention the article of Van Breedam (2001) , which is dedicated to the VRP and states that in a tabu search algorithm “for almost all problems of the four move types, the good initial solution gives significantly better final solutions”. In this article we use two methods for obtaining the initial solutions: a nearest neighbour heuristic (NNH) and another based on a pseudo lower bound. Furthermore, we also experiment with initial solutions given by an insertion heuristic (IH) and a lower bound. We do this in order to compare them with the other two methods, but only global results are provided for these. In the selection of the method to produce the initial solution, our goal has been to find a solution with a good structure and less importance has been given to its cost. The NNH creates a set of routes sequentially. Each route is started with the unrouted customer nearest from the depot, then the nearest admissible customer from this one is added, and so on. A customer is said to be admissible if its insertion in the route does not violate any of the constraints, namely, the capacity of the vehicle and the maximum allowable length of the route. When no customer is admissible in the route under construction a new route is started or the process stops if all the customers are already routed. The rationale behind this heuristic is explained in the following. The NNH has been applied frequently for solving the travelling salesman problem (TSP). Although being a very natural heuristic for the TSP, the quality of its solutions is generally not high. The main reason for this behaviour is that this method is myopic, principally, because in the end there is no freedom of choice and the last unrouted customer must enter the tour. Usually, it is the edge that links this last customer with the initial customer that contributes most for hampering the solution. However, in the Hamiltonian path, such an edge does not exist and so there is a better chance for good behaviour of the NNH. Obviously, the resolution of the OVRP comprises another interrelated task, which is the formation of the clusters of customers corresponding to each of the paths. Concerning the creation of the clusters, this heuristic is rather greedy and short sighted towards the end of the route, when the vehicle is almost full. This is because a customer is chosen more due to his demand and less due to his vicinity to the other members of the cluster. The other method used to obtain the initial solution is based on a pseudo lower bound as described in the following.