Password: The generalized vehicle routing problem (GVRP) is an extension of the vehicle routing problem (VRP) and was introduced by Ghiani and Improta [1] . The GVRP is the problem of designing optimal delivery or collection routes from a given depot to a number of predefined, mutually exclusive and exhaustive node-sets (clusters) which includes exactly one node from each cluster, subject to capacity restrictions. The aim of this paper is to provide two new models of the GVRP based on integer programming. The first model, called the node formulation is similar to the Kara–Bektaş formulation [2] , but produces a stronger lower bound. The second one, called the flow formulation, is completely new. We show as well that under specific circumstances the proposed models of the GVRP reduces to the well known routing problems. Finally, the GVRP is extended for the case in which the vertices of any cluster of each tour are contiguous. This case is defined as the clustered generalized vehicle routing problem and both of the proposed formulations of GVRP are adapted to clustered case. Keywords Network design ; Vehicle routing problem ; Generalized vehicle routing problem ; Generalized traveling salesman problem ; Integer programming 1. Introduction Problems associated with determining optimal routes for vehicles from one or several depots to a set of locations/customers, subject to various constraints, such as vehicle capacity, route length, time windows, etc., are known as vehicle routing problems (VRPs). These problems have a significant economic importance due to the many practical applications in the field of distribution, collection, logistics, etc. A wide body of literature exists on the VRP problem (for an extensive bibliography, see Laporte and Osman [3] , Laporte [4] and the book edited by Ball et al. [5] ). The generalized vehicle routing problem (GVRP) is a generalization of the VRP, in which the nodes of a graph are partitioned into a given number of nodes sets, called clusters, and we are interested in finding the optimal routes from the given depot to the number of predefined clusters which include exactly one node from each cluster. The GVRP belongs to the class of generalized combinatorial optimization problems. Classical combinatorial optimization problems can be generalized in a natural way by considering a related problem relative to a given partition of the nodes of the graph into node sets. In the literature one finds generalized problems such as the generalized minimum spanning tree problem (GMSTP), the generalized traveling salesman problem (GTSP), the generalized vehicle routing problem (GVRP), the generalized Steiner tree problem, the generalized (subset) assignment problem, etc. These generalized problems typically belong to the class of NP-complete problems, are harder than the classical ones and nowadays are intensively studied due to the interesting properties and applications in the real world. The GVRP can be seen as well as a variant of the generalized traveling salesman problem (GTSP), which is an extension of the well known traveling salesman problem. An extensive research exists on the GTSP (see for example [6] , [7] , [8]  and  [9] , etc). Integer linear programming formulations for GTSP are presented by Laporte and Nobert [6] and Fischetti et al. [8] . In these formulations, the number of the constraints grows exponentially with the number of the nodes of the graph. Recently, Pop [10] proposed six new integer programming formulations four of them are polynomial size formulations for GTSP. We could not observe any formulation for the multiple traveler case of the GTSP, namely the generalized multiple traveling salesman problem (GmTSP). In fact, the GVRP can be considered as an extension of the GmTSP where travelers are turn to be vehicles having limited capacities and clusters have a demand to be satisfied. The GVRP has been introduced by Ghiani and Improta [1] in 2000. They proposed as well a solution procedure by transforming the GVRP into a capacitated arc routing problem for which an exact algorithm and several approximate procedures are reported in literature. In 2003, Kara and Bektaş [2] proposed an integer programming formulation for GVRP with a polynomially increasing number of binary variables and constraints. Pop et al. proposed an ant colony based algorithm [11] and recently a genetic algorithm [12] for solving the GVRP. In this paper we present two integer linear programming formulations for GVRP with O ( n 2 ) binary variables and O ( n 2 ) constraints. The first model, named as node based formulation, is structurally similar to the Kara–Bektaş [2] formulation, but we show that it produces stronger lower bounds than Kara–Bektaş formulation. The second one, named as flow based formulation is completely new. Under specific circumstances, we show that, the proposed models reduce to the GmTSP and GTSP. Finally, the GVRP is extended for the case where a vehicle follows a Hamiltonian path within each cluster. This case is defined as the clustered generalized vehicle routing problem and the proposed formulations for the GVRP are adapted to this case. The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. In the second section we define the generalized vehicle routing problem (GVRP). Section 3 contains the new integer linear programming formulations of the GVRP. We show in Section 4 that special cases of the proposed formulations reduce to the integer programming models of the GmTSP and GTSP. Finally, the GVRP is extended for the case in which the vertices of any cluster of each tour are contiguous. This case is defined as the clustered generalized vehicle routing problem and both of the proposed formulations of GVRP are extended to clustered case in Section 5 . In Section 6 , we considered the numerical example described by Ghiani and Improta [1] for which we provided the optimal solution using our novel integer programming based formulations of the GVRP. The paper concludes with some remarks and further suggestions given in Section 7 . 2. Definition of the GVRP Let G  = ( V ,  A ) be a directed graph with V  = {0, 1, 2, … ,  n } as the set of vertices and the set of arcs A  = {( i ,  j )∣ i , j  ∈  V , i  ≠  j }. A nonnegative cost c ij associated with each arc( i ,  j ) ∈  A . The set of vertices (nodes) is partitioned into k  + 1 mutually exclusive nonempty subsets, called clusters, V 0 ,  V 1 , … ,  V k (i.e. V  =  V 0  ∪  V 1  ∪ ⋯ ∪  V k and V l  ∩  V p  = ∅ for all l , p  ∈ {0, 1, … ,  k } and l  ≠  p ). The cluster V 0 has only one vertex 0, which represents the depot, and remaining n nodes belonging to the remaining k clusters represent geographically dispersed customers. Each customer has a certain amount of demand and the total demand of each cluster can be satisfied via any of its nodes. There exist m identical vehicles, each with a capacity Q . The generalized vehicle routing problem (GVRP) consists in finding the minimum total cost tours of starting and ending at the depot, such that each cluster should be visited exactly once, the entering and leaving nodes of each cluster is the same and the sum of all the demands of any tour (route) does not exceed the capacity of the vehicle Q . An illustrative scheme of the GVRP and a feasible tour is shown in Fig. 1 . Fig. 1.  The GVRP reduces to the classical vehicle routing problem (VRP) when all the clusters are singletons and to the generalized traveling salesman problem (GTSP) when m  = 1 and Q  = ∞. The GVRP is NP -hard because it includes the generalized traveling salesman problem as a special case when m  = 1 and Q  = ∞.