Password: This paper presents a novel Adaptive Memory Programming (AMP) solution approach for the Fleet Size and Mix Vehicle Routing Problem with Time Windows (FSMVRPTW). The FSMVRPTW seeks to design a set of depot returning vehicle routes to service a set of customers with known demands, for a heterogeneous fleet of vehicles with different capacities and fixed costs. Each customer is serviced only once by exactly one vehicle, within fixed time intervals that represent the earliest and latest times during the day that service can take place. The objective is to minimize the total transportation costs, or similarly to determine the optimal fleet composition and dimension following least cost vehicle routes. The proposed method utilizes the basic concept of an AMP solution framework equipped with a probabilistic semi-parallel construction heuristic, a novel solution re-construction mechanism, an innovative Iterated Tabu Search algorithm tuned for intensification local search and frequency-based long term memory structures. Computational experiments on well-known benchmark data sets illustrate the efficiency and effectiveness of the proposed method. Compared to the current state-of-the-art, the proposed method improves the best reported cumulative and mean results over most problem instances with reasonable computational requirements. Keywords Fleet management ; Distribution logistics ; Adaptive memory ; Tabu Search ; Vehicle routing ; Vehicle scheduling 1. Introduction Transportation of goods or the delivery of services to customers is a very important task. Effective distribution logistics is the main target of modern companies, thriving for excellent customer service with minimal investment and operational costs. Great amounts of money are spent daily on fuel, equipment, maintenance of equipment and wages related to transportation, which often represents a significant element of logistics costs for most firms ( Toth and Vigo, 2002 ). Improving efficiency through the maximum utilization of transportation equipment and personnel is of major interest. The time that goods are transported reflects the number of shipments that can be made by a vehicle within a given period and the total transportation costs for all shipments. Even small improvements on a daily basis can lead to huge improvements in the long term. Therefore studying such problems definitely seems worthwhile. In broad terms, vehicle routing and scheduling problems deal with the optimum assignment and sequence of a set of transportation orders to a fleet of vehicles. They have a large number of real-life applications and come in many guises, depending on the type of operation, the time frame for decision making, the objective, and the types of constraint that must be adhered to ( Bräysy et al., 2008 ). The objective typically refers to the minimization of total transportation costs in operational terms, while in tactical route design and fleet dimensioning it combines both one-time (i.e. acquisition and depreciation costs) and recurring costs (i.e. variable costs) ( Repoussis et al., 2009 ). Vehicle routing and scheduling problems intensify in the real-life context when the vehicle fleet is heterogeneous, i.e., vehicles differ in their equipment, capacity, age or cost ( Taillard, 1999 ). The use of a heterogeneous fleet of vehicles has multiple advantages. The scheduler can revise the fleet composition to better suit customer needs because they may require vehicles with costly equipment ( Bräysy et al., 2008 ). It is also possible to service customers requiring small vehicles because of accessibility restrictions in urban areas, environmental concerns or physical restrictions on the vehicle size and weight ( Semet, 1995 ). Furthermore, vehicles of different carrying capacities give the flexibility to allocate capacity according to the customer’s varying demand, in a more cost effective way, by deploying the appropriate vehicle types to areas with the analogous concentration of customers ( Tarantilis et al., 2003  and  Tarantilis et al., 2004 ). Several variants of the so-called Heterogeneous Fleet Vehicle Routing Problem (HFVRP) have been addressed in the literature. In the context of HFVRPs, the transportation costs of a vehicle are derived from the sum of its fixed cost and variable cost proportional to the distance traveled, while the objective function typically models the trade-off between variable routing and fixed vehicle costs. Different HFVRP variants can be obtained with respect to the operational settings and objectives, depending on the available fleet (i.e. the vehicle fleet is composed by an unlimited number of vehicles), the type of costs (i.e. the fixed costs of the vehicles are not considered) and the symmetry of costs (i.e. the routing costs are vehicle independent). Among others the most well studied and established variants in the literature are the Fleet Size and Mix VRP (FSMVRP) ( Golden et al., 1984 ), the Heterogeneous Fixed Fleet VRP (HFFVRP) ( Taillard, 1999 ) and the Heterogeneous Fleet VRP with Variable Unit Running Costs (HVRPRC) ( Salhi et al., 1992 ). For a general treatment of vehicle routing and scheduling problems we refer to the textbooks of Toth and Vigo, 2002  and  Golden et al., 2008 , while for a recent literature survey on the HFVRP we refer to Baldacci et al. (2008) . This paper studies the FSMVRP with Time Windows (FSMVRPTW). The FSMVRPTW first described and addressed by Liu and Shen, 1999 . The objective is to find the optimum fleet composition and dimension, such that the sum of fixed and distance traveling costs for each vehicle route is minimized. More specifically, an unlimited vehicle availability and uniform unit running costs are assumed for all vehicle types. Furthermore, each vehicle type has its own fixed cost and all customer service times are identical for each vehicle type. To this end, the total distance traveling cost is defined as the sum of the time elapses from the instant each vehicle departs from the depot to the time it arrives, assuming a non fixed depot departure time for all vehicle routes. A multi-commodity network flow formulation that mathematically depicts the FSMVRPTW is provided by Bräysy et al. (2008) . The FSMVRPTW is an NP NP -hard combinatorial optimization problem, since it is a natural generalization of the VRPTW ( Badeau et al., 1997  and  Repoussis et al., 2009 ). Thus, it requires substantial computational effort for determining optimum or near optimum solutions even for medium size problems. Recently, a lot of research efforts have been put forward in the fields of heuristic and metaheuristic design for the FSMVRPTW. The main reason is the presence of time window constraints that are critical in many real-life applications as more and more importance is given to customer service and timeliness. To this end, interested readers for dynamic vehicle dispatching problems may refer to Gendreau et al. (2006) . The main contribution of this paper is to present an efficient, robust and effective methodology for solving the FSMVRPTW. The proposed method utilizes the well known population-based Adaptive Memory Programming (AMP) ( Glover, 1997 ) solution framework. Initially, a greedy randomized semi-parallel construction heuristic is utilized to generate a pool of solutions, followed by a Tabu Search (TS) ( Glover, 1986 ) algorithm tuned for intensification search. On the other hand, the exploitation phase incorporates an innovative solution re-construction heuristic, combined with frequency-based long term memory structures different for each vehicle type, and a probabilistic mechanism that is used to extract knowledge from the solutions maintained in the pool. To this end, each provisional solution is further improved via a novel Iterated Tabu Search (ITS) algorithm. Computational experiments on the well-known benchmark data sets of ( Liu and Shen, 1999 ) are reported, illustrating the efficiency and effectiveness of the proposed approach compared to the current state-of-the-art. The remainder of the paper is organized as follows: Section 2 provides a comprehensive literature review for heterogeneous fleet vehicle routing and scheduling problems. Section 3 introduces the solution methodology and its main components. Computational experiments assessing the value of the suggested approach, along with a comparative performance analysis, is presented in Section 4 . Finally, conclusions are drawn in Section 5 . 2. Literature review As mentioned earlier, the first work on the FSMVRPTW is reported by Liu and Shen (1999) . They proposed construction and local search improvement heuristics. In particular, a number of modified insertion based parallel savings heuristics capable of generating feasible solutions of good quality are developed, utilizing the sequential insertion-based construction framework of Solomon (1987) . To take into account possible savings in vehicle acquisition costs, the savings criteria of Golden et al. (1984) are appropriately modified. Furthermore, a new set of benchmark problem instances for the FSMVRPTW is introduced. In a manner similar to Golden et al. (1984) the characteristics of the heterogeneous fleet produced and divided into three cost structures, based on the well known 100-node data sets of Solomon (1987) for the VRPTW.