The vehicle routing problem (VRP) is an important scientific problem addressed in distribution management. In classical VRP and its variants, the vehicle load is often regarded as a constant during transportation; therefore the loading cost associated with the amount of the load on the vehicle, are neglected in the objective function when optimizing a vehicle routine. However, in real-world, the vehicle load varies from one customer to another in a vehicle route. Thus, the vehicle route without considering the effect of loading cost may lead to sub-optimal routes. In this paper, we investigate VRP with loading cost (VRPLC), which considers the costs associated with the amount of the load on the vehicle when determining the vehicle routes. Considering the features of the VRPLC, a scatter search (SS) is proposed. By introducing customer-oriented three-dimensional encoding method, sweep algorithm and optimal splitting procedure are combined to obtain better trial solutions. The arc combination and improved nearest neighbor heuristic are adopted as a solution combination method and an improvement method to generate and improve new solutions, respectively. Computational experiments were carried out on benchmark problems of capacitated VRP with seven categories of distribution scenarios. The computational results show that the SS is competitive and superior to other algorithms on most instances, and that the VRPLC can more reasonably and exactly formulate the vehicle routing problem with more cost savings than general VRP models. Keywords Vehicle routing problem ; Meta-heuristic algorithm ; Scatter search ; Loading cost Vehicle routing problem (VRP) is an important scientific problem proposed by Dantzig and Ramser (1959) firstly. It can be defined as the problem of designing the optimal routes for a fleet of homogeneous vehicles to serve some geographically scattered customers to minimize the total operation cost. Since then, VRP has received much attention with respects to various aspects of the problem. They are: (1) capacitated vehicle routing problem (CVRP) that is an elementary version of VRP and only considers capacity constraint ( Laporte & Nobert, 1983 ); (2) vehicle routing problem with time windows (VRPTW) that considers the due service time bound of every customer ( Bent & Van Hentenryck, 2004 ); (3) multi-depot vehicle routing problem (MDVRP) that considers multiple depots instead of a single depot ( Lim & Wang, 2005 ); (4) periodic vehicle routing problem (PVRP) that considers the service time as a period instead of a day ( Francis & Smilowitz, 2006 ); (5) split delivery vehicle routing problem (SDVRP) in which customer can be served more than once ( Belenguer, Martinez, & Mota, 2000 ) and so on. The above-mentioned problems are special classes of general VRP and they correspond to some real scenarios of transportation in distribution management. Most of the aforementioned VRPs are formulated as 0-1 integer programming problems ( Chu, 2005 , Lim and Wang, 2005 , Lu and Dessouky, 2004  and  Mingozzi et al., 1999 ), 0-1 mixed integer programming problems ( Bookbinder and Reece, 1988  and  Tavakkoli et al., 2007 ) and network optimization models ( Yi & Ozdamar, 2007 ). In general VRP models and its variants, the transportation cost usually includes two parts: fixed cost and variable cost. The fixed part is the dispatching cost for a vehicle, which depends only on the volume of goods loaded in the vehicle and distance of a trip. The variable cost is in proportion to the sum of the distance traveled. In summary of the literature, the aforementioned models for various forms of VRP consider the vehicle load as constant on a whole route, and hence the cost associated with the amount of the load, referred to loading cost hereafter in this paper, is a constant and neglected in the objective function. The loading cost is an important part of charge for consumption of gas that changes due to the amount of the load of the vehicle. However, in real-world distribution activities, the vehicle load varies greatly from one customer to another on a whole route, because the goods will be unloaded when a vehicle visited the customer. The vehicle load will decrease as the vehicle visits customers one by one and finally equals the quantity of demand at the last customer on a trip. In practice, when transporting some special freight, such as hazardous materials, perishable food, livestock or something with special handling, extra cost can be charged in real-world distribution activity. This part of cost is commonly a function of weight of the load and accounts for about fifty percent of the transportation cost. In fact, the vehicle load is considered as a kind of variable, called flow variable, to formulate traveling salesman problem and a variety of related transportation problems, e.g. network flow problem ( Dumas et al., 1991 , Gavish and Graves, 1978  and  Gouveia, 1995 ). The load variable appears in constraints or appears as a threshold in objective function. Thus, the aforementioned VRP models without considering the loading cost could only provide an approximate and simplified formulation of practical VRP, and subsequently the vehicle routes determined without considering the effect of loading cost may lead to inexact optimal routes. This paper focuses on a new formulation of VRP, short for VRPLC hereafter in the paper, taking into account the loading cost in the objective function when optimizing vehicle routes. Distinguished from the traditional models of VRP, the loading cost is regarded as a variable in objective function rather than zero. When the loading cost is zero, the VRPLC is CVRP. CVRP is a NP-hard problem and has been intensively studied. As a generalization of CVRP, VRPLC is a NP-hard problem. There has been no report on solution algorithms for VRPLC in the literature. However, algorithms for solving various CVRP received much attention. The algorithms for solving CVRP can be divided into two categories: exact algorithms and heuristics. The detailed survey of exact algorithms for CVRP can be found in Cordeau, Laporte, Savelsbergh, and Vigo (2007) . The largest CVRP instance that has been solved optimally using an exact algorithm is of 134 customers ( Fukasawa et al., 2006 ). With the size of instances increasing, the computation time of exact algorithm becomes intolerable. Thus, heuristic algorithms have received more attention and they are suitable to solve practical instances. The heuristics for solving CVRP and its variants are classified into two categories: classical heuristic and meta-heuristic. The famous classical heuristics are those like CW saving heuristic ( Clarke & Wright, 1964 ), sweep algorithm ( Gillett & Miller, 1974 ), insertion heuristic ( Gendreau, Hertz, Laporte, & Stan, 1998 ) and other iterative improvement heuristics ( Tan et al., 2001  and  Waters, 1987 ). The classical heuristic algorithms terminate with satisfactory solution quickly and are easy to be implemented; but, in general, the gap between the heuristic solution and the optimal solution is large. A systematic review on classical heuristics can be found in the literatures ( Laporte et al., 2000 , Laporte, 2007  and  Laporte and Semet, 2002 ). Compared with classical heuristic, meta-heuristic algorithms can obtain better solutions than classical heuristics or even global optimal solutions in a reasonable time. The well-known meta-heuristic algorithms include tabu search (TS) ( Glover, 1986 ), simulated annealing (SA) ( Kirkpatrick & Gelatt, 1983 ), genetic algorithm (GA) ( Mitchell, 1996 ), ant colony optimization algorithm (ACO) ( Doerner, Hartl, Benkner, & Lucka, 2006 ) and neural networks ( Smith, 1999 ). TS and SA are based on local search principle ( Kytöjoki, Nuortio, Bräysy, & Gendreau, 2007 ) and usually start searching from one initial solution and explore more promising solutions in the solution region. Some efficient implementation of TS and SA for CVRP can be found in Tavakkoli et al., 2007  and  Brandão, 2009 . GA and ACO are representative methods grounding in population search principle ( Smith, 1999 ). The meta-heuristics based on population search principle maintain a pool of solutions and update the solutions in the pool by rules. Recently, several ACO algorithms are developed to solve CVRP successfully ( Doerner et al., 2006 ). Over the last 2 year, some meta-heuristic algorithms, like variable neighborhood search (VNS) ( Kytöjoki et al., 2007 ), large neighborhood search (LNS) ( Goel & Gruhn, 2008 ), adaptive large neighborhood search(ALNS) ( Pisinger & Ropke, 2007 ), scatter search (SS) ( Russell & Chiang, 2006 ) are applied to the vehicle routing problem. Gendreau et al., 2002  and  Cordeau et al., 2005 gave an extensive review of the above-mentioned meta-heuristics in the past decades and recent years. Among the aforementioned meta-heuristics, scatter search (SS) can be regarded as an efficient algorithms for VRP ( Glover, Laguna, & Marti, 2000 ). SS is a population-based meta-heuristic and introduced by Glover (1977) firstly for solving integer programming. Distinguished from other population-based meta-heuristic, SS operates on some solutions called reference set ( Glover, Laguna, & Marti, 2003 ). It selects more than two solutions of reference set in a systematic way aiming at producing new solutions. In the domain of solving routing problem the SS can yield better results than some often used meta-heuristics ( Alegre et al., 2007 , Mota et al., 2007  and  Russell and Chiang, 2006 ).