  Local search is the most frequently used heuristic technique for solving combinatorial optimization problems. It is also the basis for modern metaheuristics, like, e.g., Tabu Search, and Variable Neighborhood Search. The paper introduces sequential search as a generic technique for the efficient exploration of local-search neighborhoods. One of its key concepts is the systematic decomposition of moves, which allows pruning within local search based on associated partial gains. The application of theoretical concepts to several well-known neighborhoods of the vehicle-routing problem (VRP) is demonstrated. Computational tests show substantial speedup factors, e.g., up to 10 000 for the 3-opt* neighborhood. This underlines the superiority of sequential search over straightforward techniques in the VRP context. Keywords Local search ; Vehicle-routing problem 1. Introduction Local search is the most frequently used heuristic technique for solving combinatorial optimization problems. It is also the basis for modern metaheuristics, like, e.g., Tabu Search and Variable Neighborhood Search. Most of the effort spent within a local-search algorithm is used for scanning the neighborhood, i.e., the set of solutions close to the current solution. It is, therefore, desirable to use efficient algorithms within local search to speed up the subroutine that performs the scan. Sequential search is a technique that allows neighborhoods within local-search algorithms to be investigated in a highly efficient way. It was discovered independently in the 1970s by Christofides and Eilon [1] and Lin and Kernighan [2] in algorithms for the traveling-salesman problem (TSP) and the graph-partitioning problem, Kernighan and Lin [3] . Although the Lin–Kernighan algorithm and its extensions still belong to the best heuristics for solving TSPs, little attention has been paid to applying sequential search to other problems. This might be attributed to the fact that the definition of a sequential search algorithm for a given neighborhood is not a straightforward task and that the principle requires some assumptions that are not met for all kinds of problems and neighborhoods. In this paper, we give a generic description of sequential search and show when and how it can be applied within local-search algorithms. As an example we use classical neighborhoods of the capacitated vehicle-routing problem ( CVRP ). The CVRP is a good candidate to study, since it is more constrained than the TSP and much more difficult to solve in practice. The intention of the paper is not to present a new and better algorithm for the CVRP. Instead, the paper presents sequential search as a generic technique. It is compared to traditional algorithms for the exploration of the neighborhood, which one can characterize as lexicographic search approaches. The paper is structured as follows. In Section 2 , we define the CVRP and review classical and some recent papers on this problem. Section 3 introduces the concepts and terminology of local search. Based on the definition of moves, move decompositions, and gains, a generic description of lexicographic search and sequential search is provided. In Section 4 , the general principles of lexicographic and sequential search are applied to different, classical, neighborhoods of the CVRP. This enables a direct comparison between the two methods. In order to show the effectiveness of sequential search, we provide computational results for implementations of both lexicographic and sequential search algorithms for the different neighborhoods of the CVRP in Section 5 . Final conclusions are given in Section 6 .