Password: Cross-docking is considered as an efficient method to control the inventory flow, which is essential in supply chain management. In this paper, we consider a model that integrates cross-docking into the vehicle routing problem. In the model, a set of identical vehicles are used to transport goods from supplies to retailers through a cross-dock and the whole process must be completed in the planning horizon. Each supplier and retailer can be visited only once and the total quantity of goods in a vehicle must be less than its capacity. The objective of the problem is to determine the number of vehicles and a set of vehicle schedules with a minimum sum of operational cost and transportation cost. A new tabu search (TS) algorithm is proposed to obtain a good feasible solution for the problem. Through extensive computational experiments, it is shown that the proposed TS algorithm can achieve better performance than an existing TS algorithm while using much less computation time. The average improvements are as high as 10–36% for different size of problems. Keywords Cross-docking ; Supply chain management ; Vehicle routing problem ; Scheduling ; Tabu search 1. Introduction In general, the production procedure consists of purchasing raw materials from suppliers, manufacturing, storing, and delivering end products to customers. The system involving moving products or services from suppliers to customers is referred to as a supply chain. Traditionally, members in a supply chain such as suppliers, manufacturers, and customers are looking for the highest efficiency simply for themselves, and typically do not consider global optimization or total efficiency by factoring in other members in the supply chain. Consequently, once the upstream and downstream sides cannot coordinate with each other in a supply chain, it will incur a higher system cost. In order to reduce the total cost in a supply chain, it is indispensable to consider all supply chain members at the same time and use more effective methods to achieve a lower system cost. This endeavor is considered an essential task of supply chain management and can be formally defined as a set of approaches utilized to efficiently integrate suppliers, manufacturers, warehouses, and stores. As a result, products can be produced and distributed at the right quantities, to the right location, and at the right time, which results in minimal system-wide costs while fulfilling customer demands ( Simchi-Levi, Kaminsky, & Simchi-Levi, 2003 ). According to the principles of accounting, inventory can have different names depending on where it resides at the various stages of the production life cycle. Inventory can be seen as raw materials when it is stored in the supplier’s warehouse. It can be work-in-process (WIP) (or called in-process inventory) when the material is in the procedure of production. Furthermore, inventory can be finished goods when WIP is completed and dispatched to the customer. Raw materials, work-in-process, and finish goods are all inventory. One of the major concepts of supply chain management is to control the flow of inventory. A warehousing strategy, called cross-docking, is considered a viable method to reduce inventory while satisfying customers’ needs. Through streamlining the flow between the suppliers and manufacturers, this strategy can help diminish inventory storage. Cross-docking deals with movement of goods directly from the receiving dock to the shipping dock, where the goods are stored in a cross-dock for a short time, usually less than 12 h, or just directly dispatched to the customers ( Apte and Viswanathan, 2000  and  Kreng and Chen, 2008 ). The cross-docking strategy essentially eliminates the inventory holding function of a traditional warehouse while still allowing products to be classified and loaded to the delivery vehicles through a consolidation process ( Wen, Larsen, Clausen, Cordeau, & Laporte, 2008 ). The concept of cross-docking is depicted in Fig. 1 in which the two key points are simultaneous arrival and consolidation. If vehicles of the pickup fleet could not arrive at the cross-dock simultaneously, then the consolidation process would be delayed until all goods are collected, and thereby increasing the waiting time and the inventory level at the cross-docking. Fig. 1.  The concept of cross-docking. Most studies on cross-docking discuss the concept of cross-docking, its physical design, or location determination. Apte and Viswanathan (2000) proposed a framework for designing a cross-docking system and indicated that cross-docking can effectively bring substantial reduction in the transportation cost without increasing inventory. Sung and Song (2003) proposed a tabu search algorithm for an integrated service network to find the locations of both cross-docks and vehicles. They pointed out that the cross-docking strategy has been acknowledged as having great potential to reduce transportation cost and delivery time without increasing inventory. Gumus and Bookbinder (2004) used commercial software including LINDO and CPLEX to determine transportation policies in a logistic network and optimal locations of cross-docks. Recently, Kreng and Chen (2008) developed two models, a cross-docking model and a traditional warehousing model, to coordinate both production and distribution in order to reduce relevant costs in a supply chain. On the other hand, the classic vehicle routing problem (VRP) involves the service of a set of customers with known demands by a fleet of vehicles from a single distribution center. The objective of the VRP is to minimize the total distance and the number of vehicles which start and end their tours at the central depot. Mosheiov (1998) stated that many applications of VRP involving pickup and delivery services are referred to the pickup and delivery problem (PDP). In a PDP, it is necessary to meet the needs of two special kinds of customers: demand customers and supply customers. For the demand customers, they need a shipment from a depot or other supply customers. For the supply customers, they need a shipment to take the goods away. The objective of the problem is to find a minimum length tour for a capacitated vehicle where the length tour starts at a depot loaded with enough goods to satisfy the customers, travels in the network to deliver the goods to the demand customers, and collects the goods from the supply customers ( Tzoreff, Granot, Granot, & Sosic, 2002 ). As discussed above, although there exist many studies on cross-docking and VRP, there are few papers that consider both cross-docking and VRP simultaneously. Dealing with a VRP task with cross-docking is important because the problem is quite common in practice. The work of Lee, Jung, and Lee (2006) is probably the first that takes both VRP and cross-docking into consideration. They proposed a tabu search (TS) to determine the number of vehicles and the optimal vehicle routing schedule at a cross-dock to minimize the sum of transportation cost and fixed cost of vehicles. In this paper, a new tabu search (TS) algorithm is developed and a comparison of its performance with Lee et al.’s TS is presented. The remaining of this paper is organized as follows. The problem description is presented in Section 2 . The proposed TS algorithm is given in Section 3 . Section 4 contains all computational experiments, followed by the conclusions in Section 5 . 2. Problem description According to Barbarosoglu and Ozgur (1999) , optimal transportation planning can be replaced by multiple sub-optimizations in supply chain management because vehicles allocated to a certain distribution center take charge of an exclusive area. Thus, a distribution network with only a cross-dock is considered in this paper. The considered problem is described by Fig. 2 , where it is assumed that all the vehicles are located in the cross-dock and split deliveries are not allowed. In the figure, a triangle represents a supplier and a cycle represents a retailer. The pickup vehicles start from the cross-dock and arrive at the cross-dock simultaneously. Then, the delivery vehicles move to the retailers and return to the cross-dock after completing their tours. The objective of the problem is to determine the number of vehicles and the best route as well as the arrival time of each vehicle so as to minimize the sum of the operational cost of vehicles and the transportation cost.