  We propose a branch-and-cut algorithm for the VRPSPD where the constraints that ensure that the capacities are not exceeded in the middle of a route are applied in a lazy fashion. The algorithm was tested in 87 instances with 50–200 customers, finding improved lower bounds and several new optimal solutions. ► We propose a branch-and-cut approach over a formulation with only the edge variables. ► Additional route feasibility constraints are applied in a lazy fashion. ► We present improved lower bounds and several new optimal solutions. Keywords Vehicle routing ; Simultaneous pickup and delivery ; Branch-and-cut 1. Introduction The Vehicle Routing Problem with Simultaneous Pickup and Delivery (VRPSPD) can be defined as follows. Let G=(V,E) G = ( V , E ) be a complete graph with a set of vertices V={0,…,n} V = { 0 , … , n } , where the vertex 0 represents the depot and the remaining ones the customers. Each edge {i,j}∈E { i , j } ∈ E has a non-negative cost c ij c i j and each customer i∈V ′ =V−{0} i ∈ V ′ = V − { 0 } has non-negative demands d i d i for delivery and p i p i for pickup. Consider a fleet of identical vehicles with capacity Q Q . The VRPSPD consists in constructing a set of routes in such a way that: (i) every route starts and ends at the depot; (ii) all the pickup and delivery demands are attended; (iii) the vehicle’s capacity is not exceeded in any part of a route; (iv) each customer is visited exactly once; (v) the sum of costs is minimized. The VRPSPD is NP NP -hard since it includes the Capacitated Vehicle Routing Problem (CVRP) as a special case when all the pickup (or delivery) demands are equal to zero. A particular case of the VRPSPD, known as the Vehicle Routing Problem with Mixed Pickup and Delivery (VRPMPD), arises when customers either have a pickup or a delivery demand, that is, if d i >0 d i > 0 , then p i =0 p i = 0 and vice versa. In general, any solution approach developed for the VRPSPD can also be applied to the VRPMPD. Real-life applications of the VRPSPD can be found especially within the Reverse Logistics context. Companies are increasingly faced with the task of managing the reverse flow of finished goods or raw materials. Therefore, one should take into account not only the Distribution Logistics, but also the management of the reverse flow. Both the Distribution Logistic and Reverse Logistic should act together with an aim to guarantee the synchronization between the pickup and delivery operations, as well as their impact on the company’s supply chain, resulting in the customer’s satisfaction and minimization of the operational efforts. The VRPSPD received a lot of attention from the literature in the past decade. This problem has been mostly tackled by heuristic algorithms and, to our knowledge, the most effective in terms of solution quality are the parallel Iterated Local Search proposed in  [8] and the local search based metaheuristic developed in  [11] . Some exact algorithms can also be found in the VRPSPD literature. A branch-and-price algorithm was suggested in  [1] , where the authors managed to find optimal solutions for instances with up to 40 customers. A branch-and-cut (BC) approach over extended flow formulations that makes use of the CVRPSEP library  [4] was recently proposed in  [9]  and  [10] ; it was capable of proving the optimality of instances with up to 100 customers. In this work we propose a BC algorithm, that also includes cuts from the CVRPSEP library, over a formulation with only the edge variables. The developed solution approach was tested in well-known VRPSPD/VRPMPD instances with up to 200 customers and it was capable of improving most of the previously known lower bounds.