Password: In this paper we consider the vehicle routing problem with soft time window constraints (VRPSTW), in which vehicles are allowed to service customers before and after the earliest and latest time window bounds, respectively. This relaxation comes at the expense of appropriate penalties that reflect the effect that time window violations have on the customers’ satisfaction. The problem is of particular importance for fleet planning as it allows decision-makers from both the logistics and marketing-sales side to determine minimal fleet sizes by appropriate contract negotiations for order delivery times. To solve the problem, we couple the nearest-neighbour method with a problem generator that provides, in a structured manner, numerous instances that result from the manipulation of the level of time window violations and the population of customers that allow such violations. The proposed heuristic results in solutions that reduce the number of vehicles required for the hard case and provide minimal violations of time windows. Computational results on a set of benchmark problems show that our method outperforms previous approaches to the vehicle routing problem with soft time windows, and that it can serve as the basis for efficient and effective fleet planning. Keywords Routing ; Heuristics ; Logistics ; Transportation ; Fleet planning 1. Introduction Typical fleet planning occurs when decision makers from both the logistics and the marketing-sales department confer in order to determine the minimum fleet size required to service the customers to which the sales department has promised deliveries within specific time windows, i.e., time bounds that constrain the earliest and the latest time that deliveries can take place. Customers have enforced the use of time windows during the last few years in all aspects of distribution, motivated by the Just-in-Time principles and the awareness of the competitiveness arising from adopting such principles, e.g., minimum inventory, reduced cycle times, just-in-time production, etc. [1] . Time windows establish hard constraints to the delivery problem, and consequently, according to well-known optimization results, the optimal solution to this problem provides an upper bound on that of the unconstrained one. Thus, due to time windows, distribution companies or manufacturers sustaining their own delivery vehicles, have to increase their fleet size in order to cope with hard time window requirements. The latter can only be affected during the sales negotiation phase, where all issues pertaining to orders and contracts take place. Providing effective tools to the sales-marketing department of a company, which allow for time window adjustments that can reduce vehicle fleet size during sales negotiation, is of paramount importance. In this paper we propose an approach to derive exactly this result, i.e., relax some time windows and reduce the vehicle fleet size compared to the fleet size required in the hard case, while keeping time window violations to a bare minimum. The problem we address can be accurately described as follows. Consider a central depot consolidating several items that have to be delivered to a set of customers. The latter are geographically dispersed within a distance radius that allows for demand to be satisfied through daily deliveries. We assume that customer demand is known when a delivery schedule is determined, as is the distance and travel time between the depot and each customer locations, as well as between each pair of customers’ locations. In addition, the time interval during which the delivery has to take place is also known (fixed when sales are finalized by the Sales and Marketing department). This interval is bounded by the earliest and latest time of the day that the delivery to a particular customer has to be completed. In contrast to the vehicle routing problem with hard time windows that should not be violated in any feasible solution, in the problem we tackle, time windows are “soft”, i.e., they can be violated in the earliest or latest service times during the solution stage, by introducing appropriate penalties to reflect a measure of customer “non-satisfaction” if such violations occur. This means that when solving the problem, if a vehicle arrives too early or too late compared to the time window bounds, it may start the service of the respective customer, at the expense of a penalty that is proportional to the extent of the time window violation. The penalty is assumed to be a linear function of the amount of time window violation [2] and, in practice, includes the cost of warehousing, effect on customer satisfaction, etc. The VRPSTW is a relaxation of the vehicle routing problem with time windows (VRPTW), which in turn, is a generalization of the classical vehicle routing problem (VRP). Because of the wide applicability in practical cases of the VRP and the VRPTW, both these problems have been exhaustively studied during the last couple of decades. The interested reader can find surveys of the published work in the areas of VRP and VRPTW composed by Golden and Assad [3] , Gendreau et al. [4] and Laporte [5] , concerning solution methods developed for these problems in the 1980s and 1990s. In contrast, the archival literature reveals very little published work for the vehicle routing problem with soft time windows. Below, we examine the limited research efforts for the VRPSTW. Balakrishnan [2] formulated the VRPSTW, using a linear penalty function for each customer to define the permissible limits of the left and right violation of the customers’ earliest and latest service times, respectively. The resulting model was solved using either a transformed nearest-neighbour method or a penalty-expanded savings method, which provide low-cost schedules involving fewer vehicles compared to the case of hard time windows. The author presented the computational results of the proposed methods on the example sets R101, R102, R103, R-109, RC101, RC102, RC103 and RC106 of Solomon [6] . However, the results on the remaining problem sets of Solomon [6] were not reported, and time window violations were quite severe for some of the example problems solved. Koskosidis et al. [7] treated time windows as soft constraints that could be violated at a cost, and decomposed the optimization problem to a generalized assignment/clustering component and a series of routing and scheduling components, which were identical to travelling salesman problems with time windows. The proposed solution method was tested on the benchmark problems of Solomon [6] , as well as on randomly generated problem instances. The results indicated that the algorithm compares well to simple heuristic methods for the hard case; however no extensive results were obtained to guarantee the quality of the approach for real-life large vehicle routing problems. Finally, Taillard et al. [8] applied tabu search to the VRPSTW. The method was shown to generate very good results for the hard case but no concrete computational tests were performed to illustrate the effect of “soft” time windows on the solution of the routing problem and of the resulting fleet size. The approach proposed in this paper includes a generator of various instances of the vehicle routing problem, each of which is characterized by a certain number of customers for which the time windows can be violated. The number of such “soft” customers varies from a small percentage of the total customer population, to the cardinality of the set of customers. Each soft problem is solved using the nearest-neighbour heuristic [6] , in which the customer selection and insertion criteria are transformed to account for the effect of time window violations through a penalty added to the objective function. The approach, although based on a simple solution procedure, provides results that consistently outperform previously developed methods and significantly reduces the vehicle fleet size with a small number of time window violations and an acceptable average length of time bound expansions. The implementation scheme is effective, can provide attractive alternative solutions, and can be employed as a decision-making tool at the sales and contract negotiation phase. Our key research contribution, therefore, is the mechanism for generating soft-problems and the integration of the nearest-neighbour heuristic within an iterative solution scheme, which provides better results than the previously proposed methods. The remainder of the paper is organized as follows: In Section 2 we discuss the VRPSTW, while in Section 3 we develop the proposed solution method. Section 4 presents the computational results of the new heuristic on literature and web data sets, and compares these results with previously published work. Finally, in Section 5 we summarize our conclusions and provide pointers to further research. 2. Problem formulation