Password: Vehicle routing problem with time windows (VRPTW) is a generalisation of the classical vehicle routing problem, where a group of customers with given capacity demand are required to be serviced, and the servicing of the customer demands has to be started within a restricted available time window at the customer locations. This class of routing problems can be used to solve many practical problems such as container truck routing, delivery service scheduling and many logistics system problems. In this paper, we present a route construction heuristic with an adaptive parallel scheme. The result from extensive computation experiments shows the proposed parallel route construction heuristic is efficient and effective for routes construction, which is particularly useful for generation of the initial solutions for many metaheuristic approaches with improved solution quality and convergence of the solution process. Keywords Vehicle routing ; Route construction ; Time windows ; Metaheuristics 1. Introduction Vehicle routing problem with time windows (VRPTW) is a generalisation of the classical vehicle routing problem, where the overall objective is to find a minimum set of vehicle routes with identical vehicle capacity, to service a group of customers with each given a capacity demand, at minimum total travel distance. The services of the customers have to be started within the customer available time window, the vehicle is allowed to arrive before the opening of the time window, and wait at no cost until the customer is available. However, the vehicle is not allowed to arrive after the ending of the customer available time window. We consider this restriction as the hard time window constraint for the vehicle routing problems. For the objective function components, owing to the relatively higher fixed cost of maintaining and operating a vehicle than the travelling cost for longer distance by fewer vehicles, thus the primary objective is to minimise the number of vehicles required to serve all customers, and the secondary objective is to minimise the total distance travelled by the vehicles. This class of problems has many applications in practical logistics related activities, such as container truck routing, delivery service scheduling and many logistics system problems. 2. Literature review The VRPTW defined above is well-known to be NP-Hard as it is a generalisation of the classical VRP problems, when setting the customer earliest and latest available time window as 0 and infinity for all customers, respectively. So VRPTW is difficult to solve optimality for any reasonable sized applications, thus it has been the subject of intensive research efforts on both simple heuristic and metaheuristic approaches. Vehicle routing problems with different variations and generalisations have been studied for several decades since the pioneer work of Dantzig and Ramser (1959) on the truck dispatching problem, and comprehensive surveys of solution techniques for the VRPTW can be found in Golden and Assad, 1986 , Golden and Assad, 1988 , Desrochers et al., 1988 , Solomon and Desrosiers, 1988  and  Desrosiers et al., 1995 , Cordeau, Desaulniers, Desrosiers, Solomon, and Soumis (2001) . Braysy and Gendreau, 2005a  and  Braysy and Gendreau, 2005b presented a survey recently on the route construction, local search and metaheuristic algorithms for the VRPTW problems. Initial route construction for VRPTW can be simply classified as sequential and parallel approaches. Sequential approach assigns the customers to one route at a time, and starts a new route when there are no more customers to be assigned to the current route. Solomon (1987) proposed a saving heuristic that constructed the routes sequentially. All customer demands are assumed to be serviced by a separate route initially, and two routes are merged if there is a maximum cost saving obtainable by having the same vehicle serve the customers of these routes together. This route construction heuristic is widely used to generate the initial routes for further improvement by simple heuristics or metaheuristics. Another sequential route construction heuristic developed by Solomon (1987) is the minimum cost insertion heuristic. According to his approach, a route is initialised by assigning a seed customer to the vehicle route, and the remaining customers are then assigned to this route until the vehicle is full. The selection of the customers to be assigned to the route depends on the cost of inserting the customer to the route, which constitutes the travel distance cost and the time cost. So, in general, the customer who is located closer to the existing customers of the route, with an available time window that matches with the current route schedule will be selected for insertion. Besides of the solution approaches developed by Solomon (1987) , some other sequential route construction approaches for vehicle routing related problems are also presented in the literature recently. Figliozzi (2010) proposed an iterative route construction and improvement heuristics for the vehicle routing problems with soft time windows, which penalties are imposed to the total cost in case the customer delivery time window cannot be met. Also, Duan, Yang, Sun, and Wang (2010) proposed a mixed integer programming model for the route construction algorithm for solving time dependent vehicle routing problem. In this category of vehicle routing problems, the travel time between customer locations is not a constant, but dependent to the timing of the travel between the locations. Most of the heuristic approaches reported in the literature mainly focus on the sequential approaches extended from the work of Solomon (1987) , only very few research studies are devoted to the parallel approach. In the line of research on the parallel route construction approach, several routes are constructed simultaneously. The customers are assigned to these routes one by one sequentially, and a new route is introduced when there is a customer who cannot be assigned to any of the existing routes. Potvin and Rousseau (1993) developed a parallel algorithm which uses a generalised regret cost measure for the route construction. The regret cost is measured by the cost increase if a customer is not assigned to the best insertion place of a route, and is inserted into the best insertion place of another route. Antes and Derigs (1995) presented another parallel route construction algorithm based on the classical insertion principle but introduced the concept of negotiation between customers and tours. Ioannou, Kritikos, and Prastacos (2001) improved the sequential heuristic proposed by Solomon (1987) by modifying the selection and insertion criteria for a customer that considered the impact to the existing routes and all unrouted customers, if this customer is assigned to the route. With either the sequential or parallel approaches, two key decisions are to be made: Which customer is to be selected as the next for insertion and where to locate this selected customer? For the sequential approach, the later question could be re-phased as where is the insertion point for the selected customer on the current route. However, for the parallel approach, one more decision has to be made prior to answering the second question; which route this selected customer should be inserted into, as there is more than one partial route available for insertion in the parallel route construction approach. Besides the research studies on route construction heuristics, extensive research efforts have also been devoted to the local improvement heuristic and metaheuristic approaches. The earliest local improvement heuristic is the adaptation of the 2-opt edge exchange method proposed by Croes (1958) , other edge exchange methods such as 3-opt, Or-opt and 2-opt ∗ are developed by Lin, 1965  and  Or, 1976 and Potvin and Rousseau (1995) , respectively. The edge exchange policies are designed in such a way that if an exchange of an edge from one route with another edge of another route results in total cost saving, the swapping of the edges is implemented provided the capacity and time window constraints are maintained. This edge exchange mechanism continues until no swapping of edges result in cost saving. These simple local improvement heuristics are widely used because of the simplicity of the implementation. Detailed review on the route construction and local improvement heuristics is also available in Braysy and Gendreau (2005a) . Another major direction of research on the vehicle routing problem with time window constraints is the application of the metaheuristics to solve the problem. Metaheuristics are widely researched in the VRPTW context because of its capability to escape from the local minimum during the solution searching process, when compared with the local improvement techniques. Regarding the metaheuristic approaches, the two main groups of research study are the application of the tabu search and the genetic algorithm for VRPTW. The tabu search method for VRPTW was initiated by Semet and Taillard (1993) and Potvin, Kervahut, Garcia, and Rousseau (1996) . Thangiah, Nygard, and Juell (1991) were the first group to introduce the application of genetic algorithm for VRPTW. They proposed to use a genetic algorithm for finding good clusters of customers, and then determine the route within the cluster of customers by cheapest insertion heuristics, and also the local improvement heuristic based on edge exchange is applied to improve solution quality. Another genetic algorithm based on the ( μ ,  λ ) strategy was proposed by Homberger and Gehring (1999) : an initial population of μ individuals is generated, and some of the better individuals amongst the population are selected, and recombined to generate λ  >  μ offspring. These offspring are then mutated to generate the new population, and the best μ offspring remains for the next offspring generation process. Other research studies which are based on these two metaheuristics include the work of Cordeau et al., 1998  and  Cordeau et al., 2001 and Cordeau and Laporte (2002) on tabu search, and Potvin and Bengio, 1996  and  Thangiah and Petrovic, 1998 , and Tan, Lee, Zhu, and Ou (2001) on genetic algorithm. A comprehensive review of the metaheuristic approaches for the VRPTW can be found in Braysy and Gendreau (2005b) . Alvarenga, Mateus, and De Tomi (2007) formulated the VRPTW problem as a set partitioning problem, and used the decomposition approach in solving the master problem and sub-problem iteratively. Cheng and Wang (2009) proposed similar decomposition technique with genetic algorithm for solving the shortest path problem as sub-problem. Recently, Yu, Yang, and Yao (2011) presented a hybrid algorithm that consists of the any colony optimisation and Tabu search approach, which the any colony optimisation is used to improve the current solution while the Tabu search is used to maintain the diversity of the solution pool.