Password: The present study investigates the cost concerns of distribution centers and formulates a vehicle routing problem with time window constraints accordingly. Based on the embedded structure of the original problem, a decomposition technique is employed to decompose the original problems to a clustering problem (main problem) and a set of traveling salesman problems (sub-problems) with time window constraints. This decomposition not only reduces the problem size but also enable the use of simpler solution procedures. A genetic algorithm is developed to solve the clustering problem, while a simple heuristic algorithm is formulated to solve the set of traveling salesman problems. The solution of the original problem is obtained through iterative interactions between the main problem and the set of sub-problems. The performance of the proposed approach is compared with the well-known insertion method and a manual scheduling of a distribution center. Keywords Vehicle routing problem with time windows ; Problem decomposition ; Traveling salesman problem with time windows ; Genetic algorithm ; Insertion method ; Heuristics 1. Introduction The vehicle dispatching and its route planning have a considerable economical impact on a distribution center. In a practical aspect, this problem contributes directly to reduce costs of all logistic systems ( Alvarenga, Mateus, & De Tomi, 2007 ). In literature, such a problem is referred to as a vehicle routing problem (VRP). Since this problem is difficult, many distribution centers can only rely on dispatchers’ experience to make the decision. However, due to the great number of retailers and fast change of demands, such manual dispatching often results in inefficient utilization of transportation resources or delay of the delivery service. Thus, the present study develops an automatic dispatching method to improve the efficiency of a distribution center. The distribution centers considered in this study are in the frozen-food distribution industry. Since the freshness of the goods is very important, retailers are very demanding for the delivery time of the products. Moreover, each retailer has its desired time zone for receiving the goods according to operation requirements, traffic conditions, or government regulations. Such time zones are called time windows and become additional constraints to the traditional VRP. The VRP with time window constraints is referred to as the vehicle routing problem with time windows (VRPTW). In practice, the restriction degree of time windows can be varied. In the extreme case, the vehicle must arrive within the time window and vehicles that violate this requirement will be rejected. On the other hand, in some cases violation of time window is acceptable but a penalty will be applied. The former is defined as hard time windows ( Van Landeghem, 1988 ) and the latter, soft time windows ( Koskosidis, Powell, & Solomon, 1992 ). Exact optimization approaches have been used to solve the VRPTW. Since the VRPTW is a NP-hard problem ( Savelsbergh, 1985 ), exact approaches in solving this type of problems are inefficient in general ( Desrochers, Desrochers, & Solomon, 1992 ). For example, Kolen, Rinnooy Kan, and Trienkens (1987) used the branch and bound technique to solve a VRPTW with node number (i.e. retailer number) ranging from 6 to 15. When there are 6 nodes, the computer (VAX 11/785) took one minute to find the solution, but when the node number increases to 12 the computer was unable to solve the problem. As a result, heuristic algorithms became popular in solving VRPTW. Solomon (1983) had developed a few heuristics for solving the VRPTW, including saving method, nearest neighbor, insertion, and sweeping. These heuristic algorithms are generally modified from their original versions for solving the traditional VRP. Thus, when applying these algorithms to VRPTW, the feasibility of inserting a retailer node into the route must be checked against the time window constraints. Among the heuristic algorithms developed by Solomon, the insertion method consistently gave very good results ( Solomon, 1983 ), and hence this method will serve as a benchmark for performance comparisons in this study. Insertion method was originally proposed by Mole and Jameson (1976) for solving a traditional VRP. This method incorporates concepts of the nearest neighbor and the sweeping algorithms. Insertion method contains three steps: (1) the route starts with the retailer node that is furthest to the distribution center, and then chooses the next node to add to the route from the rest of nodes based on the rule of nearest neighbor algorithm; (2) using the sweeping algorithm to determine the position to inset the chosen node; and (3) repeating the above choosing and inserting steps under the capacity constraint of a vehicle, and establishing a new route when the current route can no longer be expanded due to insufficient capacity. The algorithm terminates when there are no more retailer nodes to schedule. In recent years, meta-heuristics like genetic algorithm (GA) have been widely applied to solving hard combinatorial problems. The genetic algorithm was proposed by Holland (1975) . Since then, GA has been popular due to its contribution in obtaining good solutions for complicated optimization problems in a reasonable amount of time. In particular, heuristic search strategies based on GA have been explored in recent years in order to improve the solutions in VRPTW problems. Previous works include ( Tan et al., 2001 , Thangiah and Petrovic, 1998 , Thangiah et al., 1996  and  Thangiah, et al., 1993 ), and Berger, Barkaoui, and Bräysy (2003) . Among which, Berger et al. used parallel two-population co-evolution genetic algorithms to solve Solomon’s problem instances, and improved some of the benchmark results. Decomposition techniques have been also applied to convert the original VRPTW to alternative formulation and a set of smaller problems. Such decomposition can reduce the problem size and expand the choice of searching strategies. Alvarenga et al. (2007) have formulated the VRPTW as a set partitioning problem (SPP), and used the Dantzig–Wolfe decomposition method to divide the problem into a master problem, with reduced number of routes, and a secondary problem, where the objective is to find routes with negative reduced cost to be insert in the master problem. When no routes with negative reduced cost exist, the solution of the master problem is the solution of the original global problem. The authors also developed a genetic algorithm as a route generator for the main SPP formulation. The present study also adopts the concept of problem decomposition and utilizes the embedded problem structure in the VRPTW to divide the original problem into a clustering (main) problem and a set of mutually independent traveling salesman sub-problems. In order to assist distribution centers solving their special vehicle dispatching and routing problem, this study first investigates the performance concerns and scheduling restrictions of frozen-food distribution centers. The concerned performance of these distribution centers is defined as the objective function and constraints of the VRPTW model. The formulated VRPTW model is further decomposed to a main problem and a set of sub-problems. A genetic algorithm and a simple heuristic are then developed to solve these resultant problems. Computational comparisons between the manual dispatching method of the distribution center, the insertion method, and the proposed approach are provided. 2. VRPTW model formulation We have investigated some frozen-food distribution centers in Taiwan. After the interviews with managers of many distribution centers, we found that two common major cost concerns are: • Vehicle costs : These costs include fixed costs such as vehicle depreciation and variable costs like fuel consumption. Variable costs are directly related to the traveling distance of the vehicle, while fixed costs are allocated to the vehicle also based on its traveling distance. • Delay costs : A penalty occurs when the vehicle arrives at the retailer node later than the requested time window. When the vehicle arrives earlier than the time window, the vehicle must wait until the starting time of the time window. In such a case, although there is no penalty for this early arriving, a waiting cost in fact occurs.