Password: Although tabu search has generally given the best results for benchmark vehicle routing problems, it has been observed that such heuristics require substantial computing times and several parameter settings. Thus, when good quality solutions are required quickly, there is still a need for relatively fast and effective heuristics. The generalised assignment heuristic for the basic vehicle routing problem (VRP) can be extended by adjusting seed positions to reduce the optimal objective value for the generalised assignment problem (GAP). Combined with a simple Lagrangean heuristic, this gives a relatively straightforward method for obtaining solutions within a few percent of the best known values for benchmark problems. Keywords Routing ; Heuristics 1. Introduction The basic vehicle routing problem (VRP) consists of a large number of customers, each with a known demand level. Vehicles of known capacity must be loaded at a depot before making deliveries to the customers, and then returning to the depot. The usual objective is to find a set of routes which minimises the total distance travelled. Problems of realistic size are tackled using heuristics. There have been many contributions to the subject, including various extensions to the basic problem described above. Laporte (1992a) gives a survey, and an extensive bibliography has been compiled by Laporte and Osman (1995) . The best known results to benchmark problems have been obtained using tabu search, such as reported by Osman (1993) , Taillard (1993) and Gendreau et al. (1994) . However, it has been observed by Renaud et al. (1996a) that such heuristics require substantial computing times and several parameter settings. Thus, when good quality solutions are required quickly, there is still a need for relatively fast and effective heuristics for the VRP. The aim of this paper is to present such a heuristic. One heuristic which has given consistently good results is the generalised assignment approach of Fisher and Jaikumar (1981) . This requires a seed point to be selected for each vehicle, enabling the cost of allocating each customer to each route to be approximated. Then the problem of finding the minimum cost allocation, subject to the vehicle capacities, reduces to a generalised assignment problem (GAP), after which a travelling salesman problem (TSP) must be solved for each vehicle. Both the GAP and TSP are NP-hard problems, but can be solved to optimality for the problem sizes encountered in the context of benchmark VRPs. Alternatively, heuristics for both the GAP and TSP can be used, as in our implementation described below. A survey of exact and approximate methods for solving the TSP is given by Laporte (1992b) . Fisher and Jaikumar (1981) put forward a method for generating, automatically, a set of seed positions which gave good results. Alternatively, seed positions can be selected manually, to include local knowledge or human judgement. An extension to the manual approach, developed by Baker (1992) , gave good results when applied to benchmark problems by a group of students, although the latter approach is likely to be time-consuming. In this study, we consider two questions. Firstly, for any given set of seeds, does the optimal GAP solution give the best result for the VRP, or can a better result be obtained by considering several near-optimal GAP solutions, and finding the corresponding VRP distance for each? To resolve this question, seeds were selected using the automatic method described by Fisher and Jaikumar (1981) , and a Lagrangean heuristic was used to generate many near-optimal GAP solutions. Details of this heuristic are given in the next section. Secondly, if, for a given set of seed points, we can show an approximate relationship between the VRP distances and the GAP values, could there be a relationship between the VRP distances and the optimal GAP values for different seed positions? If we can show that smaller GAP values usually lead to smaller VRP distances, then we should try to find seed positions with the smallest possible GAP value. To resolve this question, two iterative methods are put forward which, starting from seed positions obtained by the automatic method of Fisher and Jaikumar (1981) , derive new positions with progressively decreasing GAP values. 2. Formulation and solution of a GAP approximation to the VRP For each vehicle, a seed location is chosen which determines, roughly, the zone of operation of the vehicle. This enables the calculation of an approximate measure of the extra distance travelled if customer j is assigned to vehicle i . Assuming a symmetric distance matrix ( d ij ), a vehicle travelling from the depot 0, to seed location i , and returning, would travel a total distance of 2 d 0 i . If this vehicle visits customer j during its round trip, the extra distance travelled is The quantity c ij can be used as the approximate measure, enabling a GAP to be formulated whose objective function is an approximation to the total distance travelled in the solution to the VRP. equation ( 2 ) equation ( 3 ) The last summation in the objective function is included to make it an approximation to the total distance travelled. This term can be ignored as it is a constant. The number of vehicles, m , must be fixed so that the seeds can be chosen. However, the GAP can be resolved for different values of m to determine the number of vehicles which minimises the total distance or, alternatively, to determine the minimum number of vehicles that admits a feasible solution, should this be required. An automatic method of generating the positions of the seeds, put forward by Fisher and Jaikumar (1981) , requires a starting point to be chosen. Different sets of seeds can be generated by varying this starting point. In the computational tests that follow, four different starting points were used, generating sets of seeds denoted by S 1 ,…, S 4 , as described in Appendix A . The heuristic uses a Lagrangean relaxation of constraints (2), given by: The Lagrangean relaxation partitions into independent zero–one knapsack problems for each vehicle, i . Zero–one knapsack problems of the size encountered in benchmark vehicle routing problems can be solved very rapidly using off-the-shelf software, such as that of Martello and Toth (1990) . The optimal value of the Lagrangean objective function provides a lower bound for the optimal GAP solution value. The aim in Lagrangean relaxation is to find a set of non-negative multipliers, { λ j }, which gives the largest possible lower bound. Starting from an initial set of values for the Lagrange multipliers, subgradient optimisation can be used, iteratively, to find improved multipliers, and convergence to an optimal set of multipliers can be achieved by following certain rules. Details of how to apply these techniques are given by Beasley (1993) , for example.