  This paper addresses the vehicle routing problem with sequence-constrained delivery and pick-up (VRPDP). We propose a multi-phase constructive heuristic that clusters nodes based on proximity, orients them along a route using shrink-wrap algorithm and allots vehicles using generalized assignment procedure . We employ genetic algorithm for an intensive final search. Trials on a large number of test-problems have yielded encouraging results. Keywords Distribution ; Logistics ; Vehicle routing problem ; Clustering ; Genetic algorithm 1. Introduction The classical vehicle routing problem (VRP) involves routing ( Golden and Assad, 1988 ) a fleet of vehicles, each visiting a set of nodes such that every node is visited exactly once and by exactly one vehicle, with the objective of minimizing the total distance traveled by all the vehicles. It has been investigated exhaustively and has been proved to be np -hard ( Lenstra and Rinnooy Kan, 1976 ). The classical VRP has variants depending on tasks performed and on some constraints. We address a problem with a mix of nodes that require pure delivery , pure pick-up or both delivery and pick-up. Such a problem exists in blood banks in a public health care system in which the logistics involves distribution of blood from the bank to a string of hospitals, collection of blood from blood camps and, sometimes, collection as well as distribution at a few hospitals. For operational reasons, collection from camps will have to be done at the end of a trip. This imposes the constraint that nodes that involve only delivery and those that involve both delivery and pick-up must be visited ahead of nodes that require only pick-up. The problem is to be addressed under the conditions that all vehicles must return to the node of origin (depot) and that every node will be visited exactly once. We seek to develop a unified heuristic that addresses the VRPDP, solves it within reasonable limits of accuracy and computational time and is also applicable to the classical VRP and VRP with back-hauls (VRPB). When embedded in the planner’s software, it can be a valuable tool towards providing service of high quality at low cost. The remainder of the paper is organized as follows: Section 2 presents a review of literature. Section 3 contains a description of the methodology. Section 4 provides the results and comparison while Section 5 presents the conclusions. 2. Literature summary The combined delivery and pick-up problem has the following variants: 1. Vehicle routing problem with backhauls (VRPB): This has delivery and pick-up with the condition that all deliveries must be completed before commencing pick-up. 2. Vehicle routing problem with mixed delivery and pick-up (VRPMD): This has delivery alone at some nodes and pick-up alone at some nodes with no constraint on sequence or on multiple visits by a vehicle to a node. 3. Vehicle routing with simultaneous delivery and pick-up (VRPSDP): This has delivery and pick-up at every node of visit. Table 1 presents a summary of the existing literature on these three variants of the VRP. We consider a hybrid version which combines the features of VRPB and VRPSDP. It has some nodes exclusive for delivery or pick-up while others require simultaneous delivery and pick-up . The VRP with this feature has not been considered in literature. The sequence is pure delivery , delivery and pick-up and pure pick-up . As suggested by Fisher and Jaikumar, 1981  and  Toth and Vigo, 1999 , we develop a constructive heuristic to provide good initial solutions to Genetic Algorithm and thereby accelerate its convergence. Variants Methodology Author and Year VRPB Extensions of savings algorithm ( Clarke and Wright, 1964 ) Deif and Bodin (1984) List processing heuristic, set covering heuristic using Lagrangian relaxation Yano et al. (1987) Space-filling curves for clustering and routing followed by improvement procedures Goetschalckx and Jacobs-Blecha (1989) Clustering, improvement procedure for solving TSP Min et al. (1992) Joint clustering for pick-up and delivery nodes followed by assignment Jacobs-Blecha and Goetschalckx (1993) Clustering, solving TSPs, assignment, finally constructing routes Anily (1996) Insert both pickups and deliveries one by one, then use improvement procedures Thangiah et al. (1996) Separate clustering, matching clusters, solving TSPs, improvement procedures Toth and Vigo (1996) Exact method (Lagrangian branch-and-bound procedure) Toth and Vigo (1997) Create a minimal spanning tree, transform to TSP Gendreau et al. (1997) Clustering, solving TSP, improvement procedures Toth and Vigo (1999) Initial solution based on saving-insertion or saving-assignment, plus reactive tabu search Osman and Wassan (2002) VRPMD VRP for line-haul; backhauls inserted using stop-based criterion Golden et al. (1985) VRP for line-haul; backhauls inserted using load-based criterion Casco et al. (1988) Solving TSPs, then re-inserting depot Mosheiov (1994) Creation of minimum spanning tree; transformation to a TSP Anily and Mosheiov (1994) VRP for line-haul nodes, backhauls inserted in clusters or one by one Salhi and Nagy (1999) VRP for line-haul nodes, backhauls brought in by insertion heuristic Wade and Salhi (2002) Initial solution based on constructive heuristic, followed by improvement procedures Nagy and Salhi (2005) VRPSDP Clustering; solving TSPs; penalization of infeasible arcs; re-solving TSPs Min (1989) Solving as TSP; finding pickup and delivery order on TSP-tour Gendreau et al. (1999) Insertion procedure Dethloff (2001) Initial solution based on constructive heuristic; improvement procedures Nagy and Salhi (2005) Full-size table