Password: In this problem there is a set of waste disposal facilities, a set of customers at which waste is collected and an unlimited number of homogeneous vehicles based at a single depot. Empty vehicles leave the depot and collect waste from customers, emptying themselves at the waste disposal facilities as and when necessary. Vehicles return to the depot empty. We take into consideration time windows associated with customers, disposal facilities and the depot. We also have a driver rest period. The problem is solved heuristically. A neighbour set is defined for each customer as the set of customers that are close, but with compatible time windows. A procedure that attempts to fully utilise a vehicle is used to obtain an initial solution, with this initial solution being improved using an interchange procedure. We present two metaheuristic algorithms using tabu search and variable neighbourhood search that are based around the neighbour sets. We also present a metaheuristic based on variable neighbourhood tabu search, where the variable neighbourhood is searched via tabu search. Computational results are presented for publicly available waste collection problems involving up to 2092 customers and 19 waste disposal facilities, which indicate that our algorithms produce better quality solutions than previous work presented in the literature. Keywords Waste collection ; Vehicle routing ; Tabu search ; Variable neighbourhood search ; Variable neighbourhood tabu search 1. Introduction In this paper we consider a vehicle routing problem that arises when a set of customers have waste that must be collected by vehicles. In such situations it is common for the amount of waste to be such that vehicles become full during their working day and have time to visit a waste disposal facility to empty themselves before going on to visit more customers and collect more waste. As such multiple visits to waste disposal facilities may be made during the working day. This problem is a (single period) node routing problem and is often encountered in terms of waste collection from commercial (e.g. retail) customers. The collection of waste from households, because of the large number of households that typically have to be visited, is often dealt with as an arc routing problem (see [1] , [2] , [3]  and  [4] for more as to arc routing problems). In the problem considered in this paper we have an unlimited number of identical (homogeneous) vehicles based at a single depot. Vehicles start/end their routes at the depot empty. We have multiple disposal facilities, so that decisions must be made not only as to when a vehicle should empty itself at a disposal facility, but also which disposal facility it should use. We also have time windows, one associated with each customer that governs when waste can be collected from that customer; another associated with each disposal facility that governs when that facility is open; another associated with the depot that governs when it is open to dispatch/receive vehicles. Each vehicle has a driver rest period (associated with a lunch break during the working day), and a maximum amount of work it can do during the day (both in terms of the total amount of waste collected and the total number of customers dealt with). Our problem is a single period problem, so we are not considering a periodic routing problem where we have to design routes over multiple periods. This paper is organised as follows: in Section 2 we review the relevant literature on the problem. In Section 3 we present our notation for the problem and define the neighbour sets for each customer. The neighbour set for a customer is those customers that are closest to it, but with compatible time windows. In this section we also present our procedures for: obtaining an initial solution; route evaluation; route improvement; and vehicle reduction. In Section 4 we present our metaheuristic algorithms using tabu search and variable neighbourhood search as well as our metaheuristic based on variable neighbourhood search, but where the neighbourhood is searched via tabu search. In Section 5 we present computational results for publicly available waste collection problems and in Section 6 we present some conclusions. 2. Literature survey In this section we survey the literature as to relevant previous work dealing with the problem of routing vehicles so as to collect waste from customers. Note that we only consider node routing papers, excluding for reasons of space arc routing papers from our review. A number of papers in the literature deal with the collection of containers/skips such as are commonly used for construction site waste. Here the vehicle is involved in collection of full skips (that have to be taken to the waste disposal facilities) from customers, and delivery of empty skips to customers. The distinguishing feature of problems of this type is that the vehicle can typically only carry one or two skips at a time, hence the number of customers that can be visited before the vehicle has to go to a disposal facility is similarly limited. This container/skip collection problem is also known as a rollon–rolloff problem (echoing the movement of skips on/off the vehicle). In our survey below we distinguish papers dealing with problems of this type from papers dealing with other problems where the vehicle can visit “many” customers before a visit to a waste disposal facility has to occur. Note here that Sbihi and Eglese [5] have discussed the importance attached to waste management and collection in terms of the “green logistics” agenda. 2.1. Container/skip problems De Meulemeester et al. [6] dealt with the problem of delivering empty skips and collecting full skips from customers. Vehicles can carry only one skip at a time, but skips can be of different types. They stated that the problem was first considered by Cristallo [7] . Their solution approach is based on two simple heuristics and an enumerative approach. They reported computational experience with randomly generated problems involving up to 160 customers and a real-world problem involving 30 customers. Bodin et al. [8] considered a sanitation routing problem they called the rollon–rolloff vehicle routing problem. In this problem trailers, in which waste is collected, are positioned at customers. A tractor (vehicle) can move only a single trailer at a time. Tractor trips involve, for example, moving an empty trailer from the disposal facility to a customer and collecting the full trailer from the customer. A key aspect of their work is that they assume that the set of trips to be operated is known in advance (so the problem reduces to deciding for these trips how they will be serviced by the tractors). They presented four heuristic algorithms and gave computational results for problems involving up to 199 trips and a single disposal facility. Archetti and Speranza [9] developed a heuristic algorithm called SMART-COLL for a problem motivated by waste collection in Brescia, Italy. In their problem skips are collected from customers and the vehicle can carry only one skip at a time. They call the problem the 1-skip collection problem. They considered skips of different types and time windows are imposed on both the customers and the disposal facilities. Computational experience was reported for real-world data involving 51 customers and 13 disposal facilities. Baldacci et al. [10] dealt with an extension of the problem considered by Bodin et al. [8] . They considered multiple disposal facilities as well as inventory facilities at which empty trailers are available. They presented an approach based on regarding the problem as a time constrained vehicle routing problem on a directed multigraph. Computational results for problems involving up to 75 customers and two disposal facilities were presented. Le Blanc et al. [11] presented a paper dealing with the collection of containers from end-of-life vehicle dismantlers in the Netherlands. In the problem they considered vehicle can carry two containers at a time. Their heuristic is a two-steps procedure, first generating candidate routes, then selecting from these routes using a set partitioning approach. They reported potential cost savings of over 18% compared with the current system. 2.2. Other problems In terms of other (non-skip) problems the majority of papers in the literature are case study papers, focusing on results obtained when algorithms are applied to real-world data. Only a few of these papers report computational experience with publicly available waste collection test instances. Tung and Pinnoi [12] proposed a heuristic procedure to solve a waste collection problem in Hanoi, Vietnam. In their problem there are time windows associated with collection from customers and their heuristic first constructs routes based on an approach due to Solomon [13] and then improves them. They reported computational experience indicating that they can achieve an operating cost saving of 4.6% when compared with the current situation. Angelelli and Speranza [14] presented an algorithm based on tabu search for the periodic version of the problem where routes must be designed over a planning horizon of more than one time period so as to meet customer service requirements. Their approach is based on the tabu search algorithm for vehicle routing of Cordeau et al. [15] . Computational results were presented for problems involving between two and six days in the planning horizon. Angelelli and Speranza [16] proposed a model that fits three different waste collection systems to estimate operational costs. Their solution procedure is based on Angelelli and Speranza [14] and results were presented relating to two case studies: Val Trompia, Italy and Antwerp, Belgium. Sahoo et al. [17] reported how they developed a system called WasteRoute to reduce operating costs for a large company involved in waste collection. They gave one example of an area that went from ten routes to nine, improving route productivity (as measured by amount collected per hour) by some 11%.