Password: Collaborative transportation, as an emerging new mode, represents one of the major developing trends of transportation systems. Focusing on the full truckloads multi-depot capacitated vehicle routing problem in carrier collaboration, this paper proposes a mathematical programming model and its corresponding graph theory model, with the objective of minimizing empty vehicle movements. A two-phase greedy algorithm is given to solve practical large-scale problems. In the first phase, a set of directed cycles is created to fulfil the transportation orders. In the second phase, chains that are composed of cycles are generated. Furthermore, a set of local search strategies is put forward to improve the initial results. To evaluate the performance of the proposed algorithms, two lower bounds are developed. Finally, computational experiments on various randomly generated problems are conducted. The results show that the proposed methods are effective and the algorithms can provide reasonable solutions within an acceptable computational time. Keywords Collaborative transportation ; Multi-depot ; Full truckloads ; Lower bound ; Heuristic 1. Introduction Nowadays, shippers and carriers are looking for ways to operate more efficiently in response to ever stricter customer demands, surging costs of fuel and carrier insurance, and more intensive market competition in the transportation industry. Shippers and carriers have developed various strategies to improve the efficiency of their internal operations with focus on reducing individual operating costs. However, more opportunities exist for increasing overall profit through collaboration among shippers and carriers, since asset repositioning is very common in the transportation industry. Asset repositioning is empty movement from a delivery location to a pickup location. It is reported that in the USA, about 18% of daily truck movements are empty [1] . If asset repositioning could be reduced, the total transportation cost will decrease. Hence, some companies have adopted a new transportation model called collaborative transportation (CT), which brings together all logistics participants to improve the overall performance of transportation planning and scheduling. CT can be classified in two ways, i.e., as the collaboration among shippers and that among carriers. When shippers consider collaborating, their goal is to identify sets of lanes that can be submitted to a carrier as a bundle, in the hope that this results in more favorable rates. A lane corresponds to a shipment delivery from an origin to a destination with one full truckload. The truckload shipper collaboration problem is formulated as the lane cover problem (LCP), i.e., covering a set of lanes with a set of cycles of minimum cost. It is proven that the distance constrained lane covering problem (DCLCP) and the cardinality constrained lane covering problem (CCLCP) are NP-hard and thus a greedy algorithm is proposed for solving the CCLCP [1] . Compared to shipper collaboration, carrier collaboration has received less research attention. At present, most carriers collect freight requests from shippers and then optimize the vehicle routing individually. However, carriers may also benefit from the collaboration if they form an organizational system to reduce overall system-wide costs and thus increase each partner's profit. In this paper, we tackle a special optimization problem in the carrier collaboration system called the multi-depot capacitated arc routing problem with full truckloads (MDCARPFL). We may assume that the collaborative carriers receive a set of transportation orders of specific load (maybe either smaller or larger than the vehicle capacity), the pickup location (i.e., the origin) and the delivery location (i.e., the destination). If each carrier provides only full truckload transport between different locations, the carriers are required to fulfil the orders at minimal cost, using a fleet of vehicles located at several depots. The problem can thus be formulated as the MDCARPFL and has significant applications in carrier collaboration. However, solving the MDCARPFL for minimizing asset repositioning in a logistics network is not easy. Existing exact methods, as proposed by Arunapuram et al. [2] , can solve relatively simple problems optimally. For large scale problem instances, as typically found in carrier collaboration, it is not practicable to find the optimal solution. Therefore, powerful heuristic algorithms should be established to tackle real-world larger-scale instances. The rest of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 introduces the relevant literature. A mathematical model for the MDCARPFL is developed in Section 3 . Section 4 puts forward two lower bounds for the problem. Section 5 proposes the heuristic algorithms for solving the problem. Computational experiments are described in Section 6 . Finally, conclusions and future work are given in Section 7 . 2. Literature review The MDCARPFL is a variant of the capacitated arc routing problem (CARP), introduced by Golden and Wong [3] . The CARP is probably the most significant problem in the area of arc routing, since it arises naturally in a number of practical contexts [4] , [5]  and  [6] . The CARP consists of finding a set of vehicle routes of minimum cost, such that every required edge is serviced by one vehicle, each route starts and ends at the depot and the total demand serviced by a route does not exceed the vehicle capacity. The CARP is NP-hard. Golden and Wong [3] showed that even 1.5-approximation for the CARP is also NP-hard. Exact methods for the CARP have only been able to solve small problems to optimality [7] , [8] , [9]  and  [10] . To solve problems of a realistic size, researchers have resorted to heuristic algorithms. Dror [11] discusses different heuristics for the CARP, including simple constructive heuristics and some metaheuristic algorithms. Hertz and Mittaz [12] give an adaptation of variable neighborhood search (VNS) to the CARP. Muyldermans et al. [13] develop 2-opt and 3-opt local search algorithms for the arc and general routing problems. Two forms of the 2-opt and 3-opt approaches are applied to the problems, which are simpler than the methods developed by Hertz et al. [14] . Based on these procedures, Beullens et al. [15] introduce a guided local search heuristic for the CARP. Experiments on standard benchmark problems and the newly developed instances indicate that the algorithm is capable of finding optimal or near-optimal solutions within a limited computation time. Lacomme et al. [16] present some powerful memetic algorithms for the CARP. Based on the tabu search algorithm, Eglese and Li [17] , Brandão and Eglese [18] and Greistorfer [19] present the algorithms for the CARP. Brandão and Eglese [18] propose a deterministic algorithm that does not require the use of random parameter values, so that the results are fully reproducible, while Greistorfer [19] makes use of the scatter search. Ergun et al. [1] propose a greedy algorithm for the shipper collaboration problem, which is similar to the CARP, but ignores the constraint that each vehicle tour must start and finish at a designated depot. Contrary to the CARP, the multiple depots CARP (MDCARP) has received relatively less attention. Eglese [20] presents a two-stage solution procedure for the MDCARP. In the first stage, an Eulerian graph is partitioned into small cycles, and cycles are aggregated into routes using a greedy saving heuristic. In the second stage, a simulated annealing algorithm is adopted to improve the solution. Amberg et al. [21] investigate a two-phase algorithm for the MDCARP. First, the problem of finding the specific routes is modeled as the capacitated minimum spanning tree problem and a heuristic is applied to yield initial solutions. Second, two metaheuristics are applied to get better routes. To the best of our knowledge, only Arunapuram et al. [2] have presented an exact algorithm for solving the MDCARPFL so far. They introduce a column generation method that takes advantage of the special structure of the linear programming sub-problems at the nodes of the branch-and-bound tree. However, the exact algorithm is unable to solve the instances when the number of lanes exceeds 200. Although many heuristics have been proposed for the CARP, they cannot be applied directly because of three major differences between the CARP and MDCARPFL, which have not been considered together in existing literature. First, in the CARP each vehicle starts and returns to one designated depot, while in the MDCARPFL vehicles are located at several depots. Second, in the CARP each order only has one full-truck demand, while the MDCARPFL allows each order demand to be any integer multiple of full truckloads. Finally, in the MDCARPFL all the orders are directed, while in the CARP transportation orders are undirected. So far little research has been done on this important and complex problem. Arunapuram et al. [2] introduce a complicated exact method for the MDCARPFL, which can only solve small-scale problems. To tackle large-scale instances, efficient heuristics are required.