Password: The vehicle routing field is a well-developed area of management science application. There is increasing recognition that effective decision-making in this field requires the incorporation of vehicle routing techniques into a decision support system (DSS). In order to provide decision support for a wide range of problems, routing techniques should be combined with systems that can take advantage of new technologies. These include spatial techniques drawn from the field of geographic information systems (GIS). A synthesis of appropriate algorithms and a GIS based computer system is identified as being necessary for effective decision support for the vehicle routing problem. Keywords Vehicle routing ; Decision support systems ; Geographic information systems ; Spatial decision support systems 1. Vehicle routing 1.1. The vehicle routing problem The problem of how to route and schedule vehicles is a long established area of operations research [14] , and routing models have been long been incorporated into decision support systems(DSS). Routing problems typically have a requirement for customers at known locations to be supplied with their demand by a set of vehicles; subject to limitations on the capacity of the vehicles, the duration of the routes, and the time at which the customer receives a delivery. All routing problems require that the products to be carried are assigned to the available set of vehicles and the vehicles are routed in an efficient way around the points to be visited. The difficulty of the overall problem is increased by the inevitable interaction between the phases; for example, an efficient allocation of loads to vehicles may lead to inefficient routes. A wide variety of routing problems have been identified, a recent bibliographic review [27] identifies 500 articles representing relatively important contributions to the field of routing. These include arc routing problems where a sequence of arcs rather than points is the result of the routing process. The variation that is found in real world vehicle routing problems can greatly influence the type of decision to be made. A number of standard characteristics distinguish routing problems [8] . The most important of these characteristics include the location of demands: at network nodes or on arcs, the nature of the vehicle capacity constraints and the nature of the objective that defines a better route. These characteristics affect both the relevant data and the degree of difficulty in finding a good solution to the problem. Some early routing software was based on the use of location coordinates and straight-line distance was used as a surrogate for actual travel distance. This abstraction of the problem assumed that selection of an appropriate path was a trivial exercise. In practice, the actual route is constrained by the need to use suitable roads. Therefore, the use of straight-line distance is unsatisfactory in many cases. The true distance approach, using distances calculated from the road network, reduced these problems. The use of the true distance approach has become an increasingly important feature of routing DSS design. However, this approach requires increased data and a consequent increase in the sophistication of the software used for the organisation of that data. In practice, routing problems are frequently constrained by time rather than by distance travelled. Estimates of the time taken for a route may be derived from the use of different speeds on different sections of the road network. The incorporation of this type of additional path data increased the usefulness of the problem formulation at the cost of making the software to solve it more complex. 1.2. Traditional vehicle routing DSS When considering vehicle routing problems using non-computerised methods, much reliance is placed on the spatial layout of the problem. Routes will typically be devised using paper maps, typically moving from one point to another, which appears to be visually close. Such manually designed routes will generally form compact blocks when completed. These compact blocks will generally seem reasonable to all those involved, including the customers and the vehicle drivers. Mathematical techniques will obviously tend to produce routes which link neighbouring points. However, the routing heuristics commonly used will sometimes produce routes that look quite bizarre in shape. For a small number of problems that are tightly constrained, by factors other than the location of the points to be visited, unusually shaped routes may in fact be optimal. However, for most problems, skilled manual alteration of the shape of a route in a DSS can improve the routes generated by the heuristics that are commonly used. These alterations will improve the spatial organisation of the route. These changes will also tend to improve the acceptability of the route to customers and staff. User intervention is often the only way of ensuring that the routes meet `soft' constraints that are not part of the mathematical formulation. Experienced schedulers have considerable knowledge of local conditions and of the relative importance of the various constraints. Human intervention in the routing process can substantially improve the quality of the routes produced. For these reasons there has been increasing recognition that the available algorithmic techniques can most effectively be used as part of a DSS. With the greater availability of graphics terminals and personal computers, there has been increasing use of graphics to represent routes on screen. By the early 1980s there was increasing recognition of the need to combine management science algorithms with appropriate graphics [4] . A mid-decade review of the vehicle routing field [11] argued for the use of graphically based interactive techniques combined with appropriate algorithms. The use of microcomputers has allowed the cost-effective implementation of routing software with a graphic component that recognises the spatial component of the problem [10] . The role of visual interfaces is widely recognised as a critical issue in the continuing development of management science generally [23] and routing in particular [9] . The routing software that became available during the 1980s provided on-line access to increasing amounts of information that the scheduler might require to evaluate a route. This trend reflected the need to include a variety of information sources relevant to a routing decision. Most traditional routing problems use information that is particular to the problem. Examples of such information might be the specific demand volumes of a firm's customers or the size of an organisation's vehicles. This information will probably already be available in the Management Information System (MIS) of the organisation. Effective decision support, for problems making use of this type of information, requires a suitable link to the MIS database and an interface that is customised to the specific problem. A good example of such a routing system was that used in the Air Products in Canada [6] . In order to organise the larger amounts of information incorporated in routing systems, database management systems were increasingly required. By the mid-1980s, routing systems combined algorithms with the increasing use of graphic interfaces and links to databases. These systems could increasingly be seen as a form of DSS, as they contain the recognised components of a DSS, i.e., the interface, solver and database modules. Modern routing DSS has taken advantage of developments such as graphical user interfaces, of which a recent example is the FleetManager DSS in New Zealand [5] . An analysis of DSS applications [16] identified routing as the most important area of DSS application in business. The authors suggest that the relative importance of routing DSS reflects the nature of routing problems. They suggest that these are less suitable for the expert systems approach used in other business applications. This analysis indicates the importance of skilled user intervention in the routing problem solving. This form of user interaction is inherent in DSS but it is not found in expert systems, where the user is assumed not to have the expertise required to intervene in the problem solving process. While traditional routing systems generally utilise algorithmic approaches rather than a rule based approach, systems that are more complex may incorporate elements of both. It has been argued that routing DSS can be enhanced by including a knowledge base component [15] . This is especially likely to be true for DSS designed to support more complex routing problems. An important prototype DSS, Tolomeo 1  and  2 uses artificial intelligence techniques to identify the appropriate algorithmic representation of a problem, including routing type problems. It has been argued that the user interface is the most important component of a DSS and that the interface design may provide a framework for the entire DSS [21] . By designing the entire DSS around the interface, the user's view of the problem can be more accurately captured, thereby providing more effective decision support. In the case of vehicle routing, the user's view of the problem is a spatial one and the user can most effectively interact with a system that accommodates this view. The trend within routing systems has been to facilitate the spatial representation of routes as part of the interface, in keeping with the user's perception of the problem. Jones [22] discusses the concept of anchoring, which recognises that people prefer the problem representation that they are first introduced to. For routing problems, without the use of a computer, problem solvers traditionally make use of paper maps. These maps provide a number of geographic reference points other than just the location of the customers to be routed. In order for a routing DSS to accommodate this anchored view of the problem, it may be appropriate to display geographic information other than just the customer locations. The most obvious need is for a display of the road network, but other geographic information may also contribute to user decision-making. This type of information usually originates from external sources, such as public mapping agencies, rather than the internal MIS of the company. One example of the integration of geographic data into a DSS might be the use of a bitmapped (raster) image of the standard paper map as a backdrop to the interface. The incorporation of onscreen maps and appropriate algorithms is not a new concept, with systems being used in the 1970s, for example the GADS system at IBM [18] . In many cases, however, the map displayed on screen is only background information for the routing process and is not well integrated with it. For example, a recent version of the Autoroute package uses a CD-ROM to store bitmap representations of UK maps, as a background to the routing network [20] . However, if the display lacks links to a geographic database, such maps provide only a limited contribution to the decision-making process. 2. Spatial decision support systems 2.1. Geographic information systems (GIS) Routing models, and related areas of management science such as location analysis, make extensive use of geographic data. A system to support these decisions must be capable of effectively handling this spatial data. The display and manipulation of geographic and spatial information on a computer is usually achieved using a Geographic Information System (GIS). While a large variety of GIS software exists, it is characterised by the ability to display and manipulate data stored in a spatial database. GIS allows the use of point, arc and polygon data and often allows the use of bitmap images. GIS allows users to perform spatial queries, for example using contour data to identify the area liable to be affected by flooding on the banks of a river. In the past GIS software was typically workstation based and relatively specialised and expensive. However as personal computers have become more powerful, new general purpose desktop GIS systems with substantial functionality have become available.