Password: The vehicle routing problem (VRP) has been addressed in many research papers. Only a few of them take time-dependent travel speeds into consideration. Moreover, most research related to the VRP aims to minimize total travel time or travel distance. In recent years, reducing carbon emissions has become an important issue. Therefore, fuel consumption is also an important index in the VRP. In this research a model is proposed for calculating total fuel consumption for the time-dependent vehicle routing problem (TDVRP) where speed and travel times are assumed to depend on the time of travel when planning vehicle routing. In the model, the fuel consumption not only takes loading weight into consideration but also satisfies the “non-passing” property, which is ignored in most TDVRP-related research papers. Then a simulated annealing (SA) algorithm is proposed for finding the vehicle routing with the lowest total fuel consumption. An experimental evaluation of the proposed method is performed. The results show that the proposed method provides a 24.61% improvement in fuel consumption over the method based on minimizing transportation time and a 22.69% improvement over the method based on minimizing transportation distances. Keywords Transportation ; Simulated annealing ; Time-dependent travel speeds ; Fuel consumption ; Vehicle routing problem When a distribution center receives all the information it needs about demand from all the retail stores it supplies, a vehicle routing problem (VRP) is produced. The distribution center must find an optimal set of routes for a fleet of vehicles initially located at a central depot, such that the retail stores’ demands are satisfied and the loading limitations of the vehicles are not exceeded ( Chen, Hsueh, & Chang, 2006 ). Therefore, the VRP plays an important role in the distribution chain ( Ichoua, Gendreau, & Potvin, 2003 ) and this research domain has been addressed in many research papers ( Ball, Magnanti, Monna, & Nemhauser, 1995 ). Most VRP-related research assumes that the travel speeds (or times) between relevant locations (distribution centers and retail stores) are constant ( Ichoua et al., 2003 ). However, in real life, the traffic conditions vary throughout the day. For example, during the rush hours in urban areas, the travel speeds are reduced substantially. Therefore, some distribution centers have a strategy to transport the goods to retail stores late at night or early in the morning to avoid peak traffic. But not all retail stores are open for 24 h. Due to the operation costs, there are many retail stores that only open when the number of customers is potentially high. During opening hours, the travel speeds are always lower and variable. Research relating to time-dependent travel speeds is uncommon in the literature ( Beasley, 1981 , Chen et al., 2006 , Fleischmann et al., 2004 , Hill and Benton, 1992 , Ichoua et al., 2003 , Kuo et al., 2009 , Malandraki and Dial, 1996 , Malandrki and Daskin, 1992 , Park, 2000  and  Park and Song, 1997 ). Only Ichoua et al., 2003  and  Kuo et al., 2009 present solutions that completely satisfy the “non-passing” property, which is also called the “first-in–first-out” property. The “non-passing” property ensures that for vehicles departing from retail store i to travel to retail store j , an earlier departure time produces an earlier arrival time, and vice versa. Most research that uses time-dependent travel speeds assumes that the travel speeds are fixed and equal to the speeds at the time of departure. When two vehicles depart form a retail store at time interval k and k  + 1 respectively, if the travel speed in time interval k  + 1 is higher then in time interval k , the “passing” situation can occur. Fig. 1 illustrates this point. There are three time intervals; the speed in first time interval is 60 miles per hour (mph), in the second time interval is 40 mph and in the last time interval is 80 mph. If a vehicle departs at 12:45 (in the second time interval) then the corresponding arrival time to a retail store 80 miles away is 14:45. However, if the vehicle departs at 13:15 (in the third time interval) then the corresponding arrival time is 14:15 and early than 14:45. Thus the “passing” situation has occurred. For more assumptions relating to time-dependent travel speeds, see Ichoua et al. (2003) . Fig. 1.  According to a report by the US Department of Energy (2008) , the travel speed will have a large effect on fuel consumption. When a vehicle carries goods on a highway (high speed) the fuel consumption is lower than for carrying goods in the city (low speed). Therefore, a model which satisfies the “non-passing” property should not only calculate total transportation time but also total fuel consumption more accurately. In recent years, reducing carbon emissions has become an important issue. Therefore, fuel consumption is also an importation index in the VRP. The same report by the US Department of Energy (2008) notes that, in addition to transportation speed, vehicle loading weight and transportation distance also affect fuel consumption. VRP-related research that aims to minimize total fuel consumption is rather rare ( Apaydin and Gonullu, 2008 , Fagerholt, 1999 , Maraš, 2008 , Nanthavanij et al., 2008 , Sambracos et al., 2004  and  Taveares et al., 2008 ), and research related to minimizing total fuel consumption in the VRP, while taking transportation speed, loading weight and transportation distance into consideration at the same time could not be found by the present researcher. Moreover, research that aims to minimize fuel consumption in the TDVRP was also not identified in a thorough literature search. In this research, when given a vehicle routing plan, a fuel consumption calculation model is proposed for the TDVRP. In the calculation model transportation distance, transportation speed and loading weight are considered at the same time. Since the TDVRP belongs to the class of NP-complete problems ( Lenstra and Rinnooy Kan, 1981 ), optimal methods are not appropriate. A simulated annealing (SA) algorithm is proposed for optimizing the vehicle routing planning. The remainder of this paper is organized a follows. A model is proposed in Section 2 . When given a vehicle routing plan, the proposed model can be used to calculate the total fuel consumption for the TDVRP. Then an SA algorithm is introduced for optimizing the routing plan in Section 3 . Section 4 introduces an experimental case for illustrative purposes. Finally, Section 5 presents the conclusions. 2. Proposed calculation model In this research, when given a routing plan, the proposed model aims to calculate total fuel consumption. In this section the structure of the routing plan will be introduced first. When given a departure time, a fuel consumption calculating procedure for a vehicle traveling to another retail store is then proposed. Finally, the total fuel consumption calculation model will be explained.