Password: A generalization of the traditional vehicle routing problem (VRP) is studied in this paper. Each customer may order several products, the vehicles are identical and have several compartments, each compartment being dedicated to one product. The demand of each customer for a product must be entirely delivered by one single vehicle. However, the different products required by a customer may be brought by several vehicles. Two algorithms to solve this problem are proposed: a memetic algorithm with a post-optimization phase based on path relinking, and a tabu search method. These algorithms are evaluated by adding compartments to classical VRP instances. Keywords Vehicle routing problem ; Memetic algorithm ; Path relinking ; Tabu search 1. Introduction The vehicle routing problem (VRP) with several compartments (Multi-Compartment Vehicle Routing Problem or MC-VRP) is defined on an undirected network including one depot and a set of n customers. The depot stores m products which must be delivered to customers by a fleet of identical vehicles with m compartments of limited capacities. The compartment number p is reserved for a product p   , p=1,2,…,m p = 1 , 2 , … , m . Each customer orders known amounts of one or more products. Each product required by a customer must be delivered by only one vehicle. However, the different products ordered can be brought by different vehicles. The MC-VRP consists of determining a set of routes satisfying all requests at minimal cost. In the proposed version, the number of vehicles (fleet size) is not imposed: it is a decision variable. The MC-VRP is a generalization of the VRP, in which each vehicle has only one compartment and each customer is supplied by only one vehicle, see for instance Toth and Vigo [1] for a survey. Like its particular case the VRP, the MC-VRP is NP-hard. The possibility of multiple visits to the same customer characterizes also the VRP with split deliveries (split delivery VRP or SDVRP), introduced by Dror and Trudeau [2] . The SDVRP is a VRP in which customers can be supplied several times. The MC-VRP offers an intermediate level of splitting: the demand of a customer for one given product cannot be split, but his set of requested products can be delivered in several times. Vehicle routing problems with compartments are widespread in logistics but seldom studied in research literature. The only published papers concern fuel distribution, e.g., Avella et al. [3] , Brown and Graves [4] , Brown et al. [5] and Van der Bruggen et al. [6] . In this application, each compartment has its own capacity but can receive any fuel grade. Customers order large demands: most often, one compartment receives only one product for one customer. The main problem is to assign orders to tank trucks, to make the best use of fleet capacity. However, once this hard loading problem is solved, the routing part is rather easy: one TSP with very few stops must be solved separately for each truck. The MC-VRP addressed in this paper is significantly different and, to the best of our knowledge, it is studied for the first time. The first assumption is that each compartment is dedicated to one product, in a broad sense. In fact, a “product” may represent different kinds of goods, but sharing common characteristics that require a specific compartment. Distribution to groceries is a good example, in which one cold compartment and one normal are used to deliver rather small orders. In that case, the two products are the kinds of food ordered, frozen or not. The second assumption is the possibility to bring the different products ordered by a customer using several vehicles. This option is frequent in inventory routing, when customers do not need to be present to receive their orders. We found a genuine MC-VRP in the West of France, in the distribution of cattle food to farms. Even if compartments are almost identical in that case, sanitary rules recommend to always use the same for one species. For example, rabbits are very sensitive to viruses and it is too risky to transport granulates for this species in a compartment previously used for bovines. In a pickup context, the MC-VRP can be met in selective waste collection. The differences between the VRP, the SDVRP and the MC-VRP are depicted in the small example of Fig. 1 . There are four customers {a,b,c,d} { a , b , c , d } , two products, one central depot and a fleet of three vehicles with capacity 18, divided into two compartments of size 9. The demands for each customer are indicated in square brackets and the traveling cost given on each edge. To obtain a VRP or SDVRP, it is assumed that the two products can be mixed and the two compartments merged into a single one: the demands for a , b , c , d , respectively, become 7, 10, 6 and 13. Fig. 1. 