  The heterogeneous fleet vehicle routing problem is investigated using some adaptations of the variable neighborhood search (VNS). The initial solution is obtained by Dijkstra’s algorithm based on a cost network constructed by the sweep algorithm and the 2-opt. Our VNS algorithm uses several neighborhoods which are adapted for this problem. In addition, a number of local search methods together with a diversification procedure are used. Two VNS variants, which differ in the order the diversification and Dijkstra’s algorithm are used, are implemented. Both variants appear to be competitive and produce new best results when tested on the data sets from the literature. We also constructed larger data sets for which benchmarking results are provided for future comparison. Keywords Meta-heuristic ; Routing ; Heterogeneous fleet ; Variable neighborhood 1. Introduction The heterogeneous fleet vehicle routing problem (HFVRP) is a variant of the vehicle routing problem (VRP) where the vehicles do not necessary have the same capacity, vehicle fixed cost and unit variable cost. We are also given a set of customers, N , a certain number of vehicle types, M , each of which has a vehicle capacity Q m , a fixed cost F m and a unit variable cost α m ( m  = 1, … ,  M ). As in the classical VRP, each customer must be served by one vehicle only, each vehicle must start and finish its journey at a central depot and the capacity of a vehicle and the maximum length of a route must not be exceeded. The objective of the HFVRP is to minimize the total cost which includes both the vehicle variable and fixed costs. The idea is not only to consider the routing of the vehicles, but also the composition of the vehicle fleet. According to Liu and Shen (1999) the HFVRP can be regarded as a short-term or mid-term (or long-term) issue, depending on the planning purpose. There are several published papers addressing the HFVRP. Golden et al. (1984) were among the first authors to tackle this problem using a constant unit variable cost. They developed algorithms based on the Clarke and Wright (1964) saving technique for the VRP as well as two implementations of the giant tour based algorithm. Desrochers and Verhoog (1991) proposed a savings based algorithm using the idea of matching. Salhi and Rand (1993) put forward an interactive route perturbation procedure (RPERT) which contains seven refinement phases, each aimed at constructing a newly constructed fleet with a lower total cost. Osman and Salhi (1996) proposed two algorithms; the first one based on a Tabu search and the second is a modification of RPERT. Ochi et al. (1998) presented an evolutionary hybrid meta-heuristic which combines a parallel genetic algorithm with scatter search. Gendreau et al. (1999) implemented a Tabu search approach using GENIUS, initially developed by Gendreau et al. (1992) for the TSP, and some search strategies from Gendreau et al. (1994) as well as the adaptive memory procedure originally developed for the VRP by Rochat and Taillard (1995) . Taillard (1999) presented a heuristic using a column generation method. Renaud and Boctor (2002) proposed a sweep-based algorithm to generate a large set of good routes, which are then used in a set partitioning algorithm. Wassan and Osman (2002) developed Tabu search variants including reactive Tabu search that uses special data memory structures and hashing functions. Yaman (2006) put forward six interesting formulations for the HFVRP which are enhanced by valid inequalities and lifting. Tights lower bounds and comparable upper bounds are found when tested on the Golden et al. (1984) instances. The first four formulations are based on Miller–Tucker–Zemlin constraints whereas the last two, which proved to be more successful, use flow variables. Choi and Tcha (2007) used an efficient application of column generation technique which is enhanced by dynamic programming schemes. New tight lower bounds as well as very competitive upper bounds for the Golden et al. (1984) instances are obtained. Lee et al. (2008) put forward an algorithm that uses Tabu search and set partitioning. Very recently, Brandao (2008) developed two Tabu search variants incorporating GENI and some neighborhood reductions. This implementation produced excellent results. Other related HFVRPs exist but these are not widely investigated. Salhi et al. (1992) were the first who considered unit variable cost. They presented a mixed integer formulation of the problem and modified the saving based methods of Golden et al. (1984) accordingly. Salhi and Sari (1997) presented a multi-level heuristic enhanced by two powerful neighborhood reductions to address the multi-depot HFVRP. Several insertion-based saving heuristics for solving the HFVRP with time windows (HFVRPTW) were proposed by Liu and Shen (1999) . Dullaert et al. (2002) developed three insertion based heuristics to tackle the HFVRPTW. The HFVRP with a fixed fleet was solved by Taillard, 1999 , Tarantilis et al., 2003 , Tarantilis et al., 2004  and  Li et al., 2007 put forward record-to-record travel heuristic originally proposed by Dueck (1993) and also designed large data sets for this HFVRP. Tarantilis and Kiranoudis (2007) adapted a BoneRoute method that uses adaptive memory to solve two case studies, one from the diary and the other in the construction sector. Dondo and Cerda (2007) developed a three phase heuristic for the multi-depot HFVRPTW. The idea is to use clustering to reduce the size of the problem which is then solved optimally. Table 1 summarizes studies related to the HFVRP.