Password: This paper presents a continuous approximation model for the period vehicle routing problem with service choice (PVRP-SC). The PVRP-SC is a variant of the period vehicle routing problem in which the visit frequency to nodes is a decision of the model. This variation can result in more efficient vehicle tours and/or greater service benefit to customers. We present a continuous approximation model to facilitate strategic and tactical planning of periodic distribution systems and evaluate the value of service choice. Further, results from the continuous model can provide guidelines for constructing solutions to the discrete PVRP-SC. Keywords Vehicle routing ; Continuous approximation models ; Vehicle routing models This paper develops continuous approximation techniques to study periodic vehicle routing problems with service choice where service is defined by the frequency of visits to nodes. Applications arise in courier services, elevator maintenance and repair ( Blakely et al., 2003 ), the collection of waste ( Russell and Igo, 1979 ) and the delivery of interlibrary loan material ( Francis et al., in press ). This problem is a variant of the period vehicle routing problem (PVRP) in which routes are designed for a fixed fleet of capacitated vehicles each day of a t -day period to visit customers exactly a pre-set number of times; see ( Beltrami and Bodin, 1974 , Christofides and Beasley, 1984  and  Russell and Igo, 1979 ). However, Francis et al. (in press) note that operational efficiencies and increased service benefit may be gained by allowing customers to be visited more often than their minimum required frequencies as illustrated in the example in Fig. 1 . In the example, nodes are assigned a preset visit frequency from the following options: daily, Mon–Wed–Fri or Tue–Thr. If node 2 (visited twice a week) is close to node 1 (visited three times a week), then serving node 2 on the same schedule as node 1 may result in considerable routing cost savings. This gain in operational efficiency is possible only when nodes may be served with greater frequency than required. Fig. 1.  Francis et al. (in press) introduce the period vehicle routing problem with service choice (PVRP-SC) which allows service levels to be determined endogenously. The PVRP-SC is defined as follows: Given : A set of nodes with known demand and minimum visit frequency requiring service over the planning period; a fleet of capacitated vehicles; a set of service schedules with headways and service benefits; and a network with travel times. Find : An assignment of nodes to service schedules and a set of vehicle routes for each day of the planning period that minimizes the total routing cost incurred net of the service benefit accrued. Francis et al. (in press) develop an integer programming formulation of the PVRP-SC with exact and heuristic solution methods. Due to the computational complexity of the problem, solutions to the discrete PVRP-SC are limited by instance size. Alternatively, approximate solutions for such instances may be obtained with continuous approximation models, yet the use of continuous approximation models for periodic routing problems has been limited. Daganzo (1987) presents continuous approximation modeling techniques for single period distribution problems with varying fixed service requirements. Smilowitz and Daganzo (2004) develop continuous approximation models for integrated distribution network design with two service levels. These references suggest that continuous approximations can be powerful tools for strategic and tactical decisions when service choice exists. In continuous approximation models, aggregated data are used in place of more detailed inputs. Aggregating data in this manner smooths minor dynamic and stochastic variations in input parameters which are less critical in strategic planning. Continuous approximation models can produce results for large problem instances in less time compared with discrete models. This is particularly useful if the system designer would like to experiment with multiple settings of the input parameters such as demand node distribution and service characteristics. Further, the simplicity of continuous approximation models can facilitate the development of managerial insights for system planning. This paper presents the first continuous approximation model for the PVRP-SC, which can also be used for the PVRP as a special case. The model is used in the strategic analysis of the benefits of service choice and the sensitivity of these benefits to various parameters. Results obtained with the model also answer tactical questions relating to the service mix of customers and vehicle fleet planning. This research provides practitioners with a tool to analyze efficiencies in distribution operations arising from service choice, without requiring extensive computations and detailed data collection typical of discrete models for periodic vehicle routing problems. Section 2 reviews the discrete formulation of the PVRP-SC from Francis et al. (in press) and introduces the continuous approximation model. Section 3 describes the solution method for the continuous approximation model. Section 4 discusses numerical studies, and Section 5 concludes with key insights and areas of future research. 2. Models of the PVRP-SC We present the discrete formulation of the PVRP-SC from Francis et al. (in press) in Section 2.1 and the continuous formulation in Section 2.2 .