  This paper presents a novel three-phase heuristic/algorithmic approach for the multi-depot routing problem with time windows and heterogeneous vehicles. It has been derived from embedding a heuristic-based clustering algorithm within a VRPTW optimization framework. To this purpose, a rigorous MILP mathematical model for the VRPTW problem is first introduced. Likewise other optimization approaches, the new formulation can efficiently solve case studies involving at most 25 nodes to optimality. To overcome this limitation, a preprocessing stage clustering nodes together is initially performed to yield a more compact cluster-based MILP problem formulation. In this way, a hierarchical hybrid procedure involving one heuristic and two algorithmic phases was developed. Phase I aims to identifying a set of cost-effective feasible clusters while Phase II assigns clusters to vehicles and sequences them on each tour by using the cluster-based MILP formulation. Ordering nodes within clusters and scheduling vehicle arrival times at customer locations for each tour through solving a small MILP model is finally performed at Phase III. Numerous benchmark problems featuring different sizes, clustered/random customer locations and time window distributions have been solved at acceptable CPU times. Keywords Logistics ; Routing ; Scheduling ; Transportation penalty cost for unit-time violations of the specified time window for node i ρ v penalty cost for unit-time violations of the maximum working time for vehicle v a i earliest service time at node i aC k earliest service time at cluster C k b i latest service time at node i bC k latest service time at cluster C k c ij v vehicle-dependent distance cost matrix cf v fixed cost for using vehicle v d max maximum allowed distance between intra-cluster nodes l depot set cardinality m vehicle set cardinality n node set cardinality nC cluster set cardinality q v capacity of vehicle v st i v service time at node i by vehicle v st C k effective service time at cluster C k t ij v least-cost travel time from node i to node j tv v max maximum working time for vehicle v w i demand at node i wC k demand at cluster C k Variables S ij binary variable denoting assignment of vehicle v to depot p Y iv binary variable denoting assignment of vehicle v to node i Δ a i i th-time window violation due to early service Δ b i i th-time window violation due to late service Δ T v working time violation for vehicle v C i accumulated distance cost up to node i CV v total distance cost for vehicle v T i vehicle arrival time at node i TV v tour duration for vehicle v 1. Introduction A key issue in transportation is the cost-efficient management of a heterogeneous vehicle fleet providing pick-up/delivery service to a given set of customers with known demands. The collection/distribution system manager should not only decide on the number and types of vehicles to be used but also he/she must specify which customers are serviced by which vehicle and what sequence to follow so as to minimize the transportation cost. Products to be delivered are loaded at the depot and picked-up products are transported back to the depot. Then, every vehicle route must start and finish at the assigned terminal and both vehicle capacity and working time constraints are to be satisfied. Moreover, each customer must be serviced by exactly one vehicle since split demand is not allowed. This class of logistic problems is usually known as the vehicle routing problem (VRP) and its objective usually is the minimization of the overall distance traveled by the vehicles while servicing all the customers. The interest in VRP problems comes from its practical relevance as well as from the considerable difficulty to solve them exactly. In the field of combinatorial optimization, the VRP is regarded as one of the most challenging problems. It is indeed NP -hard, so that the task of finding the best set of vehicle tours by solving optimization models is computationally prohibitive for real-world applications. As a result, different types of heuristic methodologies are usually applied. Several classes of vehicle routing problems have been studied in the literature. Though addressing different practical situations, they all focus on the common issue of efficiently managing a vehicle fleet for the purpose of serving a given set of customers. The most basic VRP is the capacitated vehicle routing problem (CVRP) that assumes a fixed fleet of vehicles of uniform capacity housed in a central depot. It is intrinsically a spatial problem with some capacity constraints. In addition to the geographic component, more realistic routing problems include a scheduling part by incorporating travel times between every pair of nodes, customer service times and the maximum tour duration as additional problem data. The vehicle routing problem with time windows (VRPTW) is a generalization of the CVRP with the further complexity of time windows and other time data. Because the VRP is NP-hard, the VRPTW is NP-hard too ( Savelsbergh, 1985 ). In the VRPTW problem, each customer has an associated time window defined by the earliest and the latest time to start the customer service. The depot may also have a time window defining the scheduling horizon. Time windows can be hard or soft. In the hard time window case, a vehicle arriving too early at the customer site is permitted to wait until the customer window is open. However, a vehicle is not permitted at all to arrive at the node after the latest service start time. In contrast, the soft time window case permits time window violations at the expense of a penalty cost.