  The field of dynamic vehicle routing and scheduling is growing at a fast pace nowadays, due to many potential applications in courier services, emergency services, truckload and less-than-truckload trucking, and many others. In this paper, a dynamic vehicle routing and scheduling problem with time windows is described where both real-time customer requests and dynamic travel times are considered. Different reactive dispatching strategies are defined and compared through the setting of a single “tolerance” parameter. The results show that some tolerance to deviations with the current planned solution usually leads to better solutions. Keywords Transportation ; Routing ; Dynamic ; Heuristics ; Tolerance Real-time vehicle routing and scheduling has been the subject of many studies during the last few years, as reviewed in [1] , [2]  and  [3] . Different questions and issues arising in a dynamic context are also discussed in [4]  and  [5] . With regard to the work done in this field, our main contribution is the introduction of a “tolerance” concept. In particular, it is empirically demonstrated that reactive dispatching strategies based on some tolerance to deviations to the current planned routes (due to dynamic events) leads to better overall results when compared with simpler strategies, such as immediate reaction to any deviation or no reaction at all. In this paper, dynamic events that relate both to the occurrence of new customer requests and dynamic travel times are considered. The remainder of the paper is the following. In Section 2 , a static version of the vehicle routing and scheduling problem is presented. This is followed in Section 3 by a description of a dynamic environment where new customer requests occur in real-time and where travel times are subjected to stochastic variations. Then, a dispatching algorithm is developed in Section 4 to handle both types of events. In the case of dynamic travel times, a tolerance to deviations is proposed to guide the course of actions when a vehicle does not show according to the planned schedule. Computational results in Section 5 provide an indication of the benefits associated with the latter strategy. Concluding remarks follow in Section 6 . 2. The static problem The problem is motivated from the management of local routes in international courier services. This is a many-to-one type of problems where express mail is collected at different customer locations and brought back to a central depot, for further shipping. The static version of the problem can be characterized as an uncapacitated vehicle routing problem with time windows (VRPTW), which is formally stated in the following. Graph   : We have a complete graph G=(V,E) G = ( V , E ) where V={0,1,2,…,n} V = { 0 , 1 , 2 , … , n } is the vertex set and E   is the edge set. Vertices i=1,…,n i = 1 , … , n correspond to customers, whereas vertex 0 is the depot. A non negative travel time t ij t ij is associated with each edge (i,j)∈E ( i , j ) ∈ E . Customers : Each customer i   is characterized by a pick-up location, a service time s i s i , a time window [e i ,l i ] [ e i , l i ] and a vehicle planned arrival time t i t i . If t i <e i t i < e i , the vehicle has to wait up to e i e i before servicing the customer. If t i >l i t i > l i , a penalty is incurred in the objective.