  In this paper, the vehicle routing problem with fuzzy demands (VRPFD) is considered, and a fuzzy chance constrained program model is designed, based on fuzzy credibility theory. Then stochastic simulation and differential evolution algorithm are integrated to design a hybrid intelligent algorithm to solve the fuzzy chance constrained program model. Moreover, the influence of the dispatcher preference index on the final objective of the problem is discussed using stochastic simulation, and the best value of the dispatcher preference index is obtained. Keywords Vehicle routing problem ; Uncertainty ; Fuzzy sets ; Stochastic simulation ; Differential evolution ; Optimization 1. Introduction The vehicle routing problem (VRP) is concerned with finding efficient routes of minimum total cost, beginning and ending at a central depot, for a fleet of vehicles to serve a number of customers for some commodity, such that each customer is visited exactly once by one vehicle, and satisfying some side constraints such as capacity constraints, duration constraints and time window constraints. This problem was first introduced in [1] . Hundreds of papers in world literature have been devoted to this problem. But most of them assume that all information is deterministic, such as customer information, vehicle information, state of roads information as well as dispatcher information and so on, and the proposed algorithm is only used to solve the deterministic VRP. Actually, in some new systems, it is hard to describe the parameters of the vehicle routing problem as deterministic VRP because there exists much uncertain data such as customer demands, traveling time as well as the set of customers to be visited. We call these problems non-deterministic VRP. In this respect, stochastic vehicle routing problem (SVRP) and fuzzy vehicle routing problem (FVRP) are the main research objects. SVRP arises whenever some elements of the problem are random. Common examples are stochastic demands and stochastic travel times. Sometimes, the set of customers to be visited is not known with certainty. In such a case, each customer has a probability of being present. Lots of researcher gave many models and algorithms for SVRP [2] , [3] , [4]  and  [5] . FVRP arises whenever some elements of the problem are uncertain, subjective, ambiguous and vague [6] . For instance, in our problem, the information about demand at each customer is often not precise enough. For example, based on experience, it can be concluded that demand of a customer is “around 50 units”, “between 20 and 60 units”, etc. Generally, we can use fuzzy variables to deal with these uncertain parameters, as was first presented in [6] in VRP, and Cheng and Gen  [7] used a genetic algorithm to solve the vehicle routing problem with fuzzy due-time. Moreover, Lai et al.  [8] modeled VRP with fuzzy travel times by fuzzy programming with a possibility measurement, and adopted the genetic algorithm to solve the model. Zheng and Liu  [9] researched the vehicle routing problem with fuzzy travel time, and presented a chance constrained program (CCP) model with credibility measurement, then integrated a fuzzy simulation and genetic algorithm (GA) to design a hybrid intelligent algorithm to solve the model. The FVRP differs from their deterministic counterpart in several fundamental respects. The concept of a solution is different, several fundamental properties of deterministic VRP no longer hold in FVRP, and solution methodologies are considerably more intricate. Recently, differential evolution (DE), as a novel evolutionary technique has been developed, and it was originally proposed for continuous optimization [10]  and  [11] . DE is a population-based globally evolutionary algorithm, which uses a simple operator to create new candidate solutions and a one-to-one competition scheme to select new candidates greedily. Due to its simple structure, easy implementation, quick convergence, and robustness, DE has been turned out to be one of the best evolutionary algorithms for solving continuous problems in a variety of fields. Nevertheless, due to DEs continuous nature, the research work on DE for combinatorial optimization is very limited. Obviously, it is difficult to apply DE to different areas of problems other than continuous optimization that inventors originally focused on. Recently, some researchers have used DE to design a machine layout problem [10]  and  [12] , and to solve manufacturing problems with mixed integer discrete variables [13] . But to the best of our knowledge, no work can be found about VRP that uses differential evolution. In this paper, we will firstly adopt a differential evolution algorithm to solve vehicle routing problem with fuzzy demand, and the proposed differential evolution algorithm can also solve other deterministic counterpart in that the VRPFD considers more complicated side constraints. This paper is organized as follows: In Section  2 , we give some basic concepts on fuzzy theory. In Section  3 , we introduce vehicle routing problem with fuzzy demand and present a CCP model, where we will measure fuzzy events with credibility. Then we integrate stochastic simulation and a differential evolution algorithm to design a hybrid intelligent algorithm to solve this model in Section  4 . In Section  5 , we will give two experiments to reveal the effectiveness of the hybrid intelligent algorithm. In the final section, we summarize the contributions of the paper. 2. Fuzzy credibility measure theory The concept of the fuzzy set was initiated in [14] via the membership function. And then it has been well developed and applied in a wide variety of real problems. In order to measure a fuzzy event, the term fuzzy variable was introduced in [15] , and possibility measure theory of fuzzy variable was proposed in [16] Recently, credibility theory was founded by Liu  [17] .