Password: This paper considers the dynamic multi-period vehicle routing problem which deals with the distribution of orders from a depot to a set of customers over a multi-period time horizon. Customer orders and their feasible service periods are dynamically revealed over time. The objectives are to minimize total travel costs and customer waiting, and to balance the daily workload over the planning horizon. This problem originates from a large distributor operating in Sweden. It is modeled as a mixed integer linear program, and solved by means of a three-phase heuristic that works over a rolling planning horizon. The multi-objective aspect of the problem is handled through a scalar technique approach. Computational results show that the proposed approach can yield high quality solutions within reasonable running times. Keywords Dynamic ; Multi-period ; Multi-objective ; Vehicle routing ; Variable neighborhood search 1. Introduction The purpose of this paper is to model and solve the dynamic multi-period vehicle routing problem (DMPVRP). Our study is motivated by the case of Lantmännen, a large distributor operating in Sweden, but our contribution is of general applicability. In the DMPVRP, customers place orders dynamically over a planning horizon consisting of several periods (or days). Each request specifies a demand quantity, a delivery location and a set of consecutive periods during which delivery can take place. The distributor must plan its delivery routes over several days so as to minimize the routing cost and customer waiting, and to balance the daily workload over the planning horizon. Lantmännen is one of the largest groups within the food, energy and agricultural industries in the Nordic countries. The company is owned by 42,000 Swedish farmers, hires 13,000 employees, and generates sales of SEK 36 billion per year. One of its activities is the distribution of fodder to the farmers at their request from one of several terminals which usually operate independently of each other, except in periods of intense activity. Here we consider a single terminal, Västerås, located in southern Sweden. It is the busiest terminal in terms of number of vehicles and orders. Fig. 1 shows the locations of the customers and of the terminal. The distribution problem is very complicated in practice and involves many special restrictions, for example, rules regarding the use of compartments in the vehicle and special loading restrictions. In this work, we consider a simplified problem in which customers place orders over time and the distribution schedule of a given day is constructed for several vehicles at the beginning of that day. It serves some of the unfulfilled orders and typically leaves some for the following days. A fair amount of foresight is required so as not to create infeasible situations in the future while creating efficient routes. Unfulfilled orders after the schedule has been built and new orders accumulated during the day are considered for scheduling the following day. Because the drivers do not interact with the customers when delivering, no time windows need to be specified. Fig. 1.  The literature on the DMPVRP is rather scarce. To our knowledge, the closest work was done by Angelelli et al. [1]  and  [2] . Angelelli et al. [1] have considered a special case of the DMPVRP in which each order has two consecutive feasible visit days after its arrival and only one uncapacitated vehicle is available each day. This problem has been extended in a paper by Angelelli et al. [2] in which a fixed fleet of vehicles is available and on-line requests are considered by re-optimizing the plan during the day. A request is called on-line if it arrives during the day when the vehicles are already moving in the area. An on-line request can be either postponable or unpostponable, which means it must be served on the day that it arrives. It is assumed in the paper that unpostponable requests can only arrive before a fixed time in order to ensure the feasibility of the solution. The DMPVRP is closely related to the periodic vehicle routing problem (PVRP) in which all information is available at the beginning of the planning horizon. In the PVRP, customers specify a service frequency and sets of allowable combinations of visit days. For example, if a customer specifies a frequency of 2 and the combinations {1,3} { 1 , 3 } and {2,4} { 2 , 4 } , then the customer wishes to be visited twice, on days 1 and 3, or on days 2 and 4. In the DMPVRP, visit frequencies are equal to 1 and visit combinations are made up of consecutive days. The PVRP is usually solved heuristically. The best known algorithms for this problem are those of Cordeau, Gendreau and Laporte [3] and of Hemmelmayr, Doerner and Hartl [4] . Francis, Smilowitz and Tzur [5] have solved a variant of the PVRP in which service frequency is a decision variable. Mourgaya and Vanderbeck [6] have solved another variant that includes routing cost minimization and daily workload balance. Other routing problems with a dynamic component are often encountered in the context of dynamic pickup and delivery problems [7] , [8] , [9] , [10] , [11]  and  [12] , but these papers do not consider a multi-period horizon. For recent literature reviews, see Larsen, Madsen and Solomon [13] , and Berbeglia, Cordeau and Laporte [14] . Another strand of literature relevant to our problem is about the Multi-Objective Vehicle Routing Problem encountered in school bus routing [15]  and  [16] , waste collection [17] , and hazardous products transportation [18] , [19]  and  [20] . The two main solution strategies for multi-objective problems are the scalar technique, which consists in minimizing a weighted linear combination of the objectives, and the Pareto method which identifies a set of non-dominated solutions. We refer to Jozefowiez, Semet and Talbi [21] for a recent survey of these methods in the context of vehicle routing. In this paper we formulate the DMPVRP as a mixed integer linear program using the scalar technique. We then develop a three-phase heuristic for its solution, and we show that our approach can yield high quality solutions within reasonable running times. The remainder of the paper is organized as follows. The mathematical model is described in Section 2 . The heuristic is described in Section 3 , followed by computational results in Section 4 and by conclusions in Section 5 .