Password: This paper addresses an application of operations research technique in waste collection activities in Hanoi, Vietnam. A real world vehicle routing–scheduling problem is characterized as a loading and unloading problem complicated by several time windows and inter-arrival time constraints at each customer point. We formulate the problem into a mixed-integer program and propose a heuristic procedure consisting of construction and improvement phases. The route construction routine is a modification of Solomon's (Solomon, M.M., 1987. Operations Research 35, 254–262) I1 heuristic, while the improvement phase combines the power of Or-opt and 2-opt* together. Compared with the current practice, our solution can achieve an improvement in both total cost and the number of vehicles utilized. Keywords Routing ; Transportation ; Time windows ; Heuristics 1. Introduction The vehicle routing and scheduling problem (VRSP) is one of NP-hard problems that exist in practice. In this paper, a case is presented as an application of VRSP in the field of urban environmental management. We study the refuse collection of a public company (URENCO) in five urban districts of Hanoi to improve its daily operation. The current waste collection activities in URENCO are described below. The company is in charge of collecting household and street solid waste in the inner city, and is funded by the city based on total waste volume collected. The company organization includes two fleets of motorized vehicles and five divisions of manually pushed handcarts. Each division covers each of five districts, and each fleet has a working area covering two or three districts. Since the fleets operate independently and separately but in the same manner, we concentrate only on the operations of one fleet, Fleet No. 2. The solid waste collection consists of three stages: gathering manually, picking by vehicles, and transporting–dumping at the landfill. In the first stage, waste is gathered from household or industrial units by handcarts and taken to the pre-decided gather sites at the beginning of specific time periods (time windows). There are around 100 such gather sites for each fleet. There are also several (up to six) time windows at each site with different waste volumes in different windows. In the second stage, a tipper (a specialized truck with a hydraulic loading/unloading device) departing from the depot arrives at the site during the time window. The waste is, then, unloaded from the handcarts and loaded onto the tipper. Being empty, the handcart starts a next round, and only comes back to the site after a period of time, which dictates at a gather site the minimum time required between pick-ups or the minimum inter-arrival time of vehicles. After a pick-up, the tipper leaves for the next gather sites following a pre-determined sequence twice until having a full or almost full load. In the last stage, the full-loaded truck shall go to dump the garbage at Metri landfill outside the city, completing a route. After unloading, the truck returns to its gather sites to make the next round again in the same sequence as the previous one. On the average, each vehicle visits the landfill 2–3 times. The first route begins at the depot and ends at the landfill, while the subsequent routes start and end at the landfill. After the last route, the truck returns to the depot and finishes its tour. The vehicle travels at around 30 km/h in the city, thus the traveling time is presumed proportional to the traveling distance. Due to job characteristics, operations are divided into two shifts: the day shift from 9:00 am to 4:00 pm and the night shift from 6:00 pm to 1:00 am of the next day. The day shift requires four vehicles while the other needs 18. In total 22 trucks from Fleet No. 2 are used for street–household waste collection daily, all of which are obsolete and fully depreciated. At present, each tipper has a route visiting its sites in a fixed sequence. Due to the inflexibility and inefficiency of current operations, URENCO management was seeking for a systematic method to improve the fleet operation, vehicle deployment, and its associated costs. In this study, we apply operations research techniques to address the management concerns and concentrate on the vehicle routing and scheduling of a fleet, leaving the handcart operation for future study. VRSP to be addressed in this paper constrained by multiple time windows and minimum inter-arrival times for each site as well as the limited vehicle capacity and operating hour is slightly different from the standard VRSP due to the repetition of site and landfill visits. In contrast to the current practice, we also propose a policy of flexible routing that allows the vehicle to visit sites in any sequence. While only fixed sequence condition is released, the other requirements remain. To the best of our knowledge, such a complicated problem has not been studied or published in the literature. The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Section 2 briefly reviews the existing work on VRSP. Next, we devise a heuristic algorithm in Section 3 . In Section 4 , heuristic solutions are obtained and compared with the current practice in terms of cost and number of vehicles used. Finally, we provide some conclusions in Section 5 . 2. Literature review The classical vehicle routing problem (VRP) determines at the minimum total costs the routing of multiple number of vehicles, each of which starts from the depot, visits a number of nodes, and ends at the depot. According to Bodin and Golden (1981) , VRP may possess different characteristics depending on the nature of each application. Examples of those characteristics include types of available fleets (homogeneous or heterogeneous), number of depots (single or multiple), and types of operations (pure pick-ups, pure deliveries, and their mix). The VRSP is considered as VRP extended by additional time constraints, such as time windows, total time limitation, and the precedence requirement of the service (for example, pick-ups before delivery). VRSP may be formulated as a network problem; hence they also belong to the general class of network optimization problems (Golden et al., 1981) . Lenstra and Rinnooy Kan (1981) showed that in general, VRSP is NP-hard ; and one frequently resorts to approximate or heuristic procedures in solving the problem. For the single depot VRP, most solution strategies can be classified as one of the following approaches (Bodin et al., 1983) : cluster first–route second, route first–cluster second, route construction by savings/insertion, route improvement by exchange, mathematical programming, interactive optimization, and exact procedures. The cluster first–route second procedure groups nodes and/or arcs, and then designs an economical route over each cluster. The route first–cluster second procedure works in the reverse sequence. The savings/insertion procedure constructs a solution, using some criterion function in selecting nodes to be inserted into a route. The improvement procedure exchanges arcs or nodes, but always maintains feasibility and strives towards optimality. The mathematical programming approach includes algorithms that are directly based on a mixed-integer program of the underlying routing problem, such as the Lagrangean relaxation by Fisher and Jaikumar (1981) . Interactive optimization is a general-purpose approach in which a high degree of human interaction is incorporated into the problem solving process (Krolak et al., 1972) . Exact procedures for solving VRPs include specialized branch and bound, dynamic programming and cutting plane algorithms Christofides et al., 1981  and  Laporte, 1992 . The vehicle routing problem with time windows (VRPTW), a special case of VRSP, has complexity of allowable delivery times, or time windows, imposing earliest and latest service time. Very limited work has been done on optimal approaches in solving VRPTW of practical size, while heuristics have been found to be more effective and efficient (Solomon and Desrosiers, 1988) . Solomon (1987) designed and analyzed a variety of route construction heuristics for VRPTW. Results of extensive empirical study reported in Solomon (1987) indicate that a sequential time–space insertion algorithm, a generalization of Mole and Jameson (1976) for VRP, is quite successful in a number of important VRPTW environments. Several efficient implementations of branch exchanges in improvement procedures for VRPTW were developed in Solomon et al. (1988) . Or (1976) also showed that Or-opt procedure can obtain improved solutions of equivalent quality to those produced by 3-opt but in significantly less execution time. Potvin and Rousseau (1995) introduced 2-opt* exchange as a modification of 2-opt and showed that a combination of Or-opt and 2-opt* exchanges is effective in solving VRPTW. Consequently, Taillard et al. (1997) proposed for VRP with soft time windows a new tabu search heuristic called CROSS exchange, also a combination of Or-opt and 2-opt* procedures. Koskosidis et al. (1992) , on the other hand, presented a heuristic for VRP with soft time windows, based on the Generalized Assignment heuristic proposed by Fisher and Jaikumar (1981) . Ferland and Fortin (1989) introduced a heuristic approach for VRP with sliding time windows. The technique was first developed for the problem with time windows and then extended to the case with sliding time windows. 3. The proposed heuristic method In this paper, we propose a flexible routing policy for vehicles which is different from the company’s fixed routing policy in that for each route, the number and the sequence of nodes a truck visits can be different. The suggested policy is formulated into a mixed-integer program with the objective of minimizing the total operating costs, shown in Appendix A . This formulation can be used to derive exact solutions for applications similar to our case. For large VRSPs, there are several heuristics using different techniques. Many of them, however, are adaptations of well-known procedures that involve the route construction and improvement approach. The route construction approach normally applies a greedy technique to obtain a good initial solution in a short computational time. From the initial solution, the route improvement procedure attempts to improve it, using one or more exchange procedures. Such a systematic solution procedure has been proven successfully in many studies such as Potvin and Rousseau (1995) , Renaul et al. (1996) , and Taillard et al. (1997) .