  The vehicle routing problem with time windows is a complex combinatorial problem with many real-world applications in transportation and distribution logistics. Its main objective is to find the lowest distance set of routes to deliver goods, using a fleet of identical vehicles with restricted capacity, to customers with service time windows. However, there are other objectives, and having a range of solutions representing the trade-offs between objectives is crucial for many applications. Although previous research has used evolutionary methods for solving this problem, it has rarely concentrated on the optimization of more than one objective, and hardly ever explicitly considered the diversity of solutions. This paper proposes and analyzes a novel multi-objective evolutionary algorithm, which incorporates methods for measuring the similarity of solutions, to solve the multi-objective problem. The algorithm is applied to a standard benchmark problem set, showing that when the similarity measure is used appropriately, the diversity and quality of solutions is higher than when it is not used, and the algorithm achieves highly competitive results compared with previously published studies and those from a popular evolutionary multi-objective optimizer. Keywords Vehicle routing problem ; Combinatorial optimization ; Multi-objective optimization ; Evolutionary algorithms 1. Introduction The vehicle routing problem (VRP) is one of the most important and widely studied combinatorial optimization problems, with many real-world applications in distribution and transportation logistics [1] . Its objective is to obtain the lowest-cost set of routes to deliver demand to customers. But what does lowest-cost mean? Since the problem was proposed by Dantzig and Ramser [2] as a generalization of the traveling salesman problem, cost has mostly been associated with the travel distance, but there are several other types of cost involved, such as the number of vehicles and delivery time [3] . The VRP also has several variants that involve different constraints. The variant with time windows (VRPTW) has vehicles with limited capacity and specific delivery time windows, and is particularly relevant to practical applications. With such constraints, the minimization of one objective rarely corresponds to the minimization of all of them, and the optimization process needs to provide a range of solutions that represent the trade-offs between the objectives, rather than a single solution. Optimal solutions for small instances of the VRPTW can be obtained using exact methods, but the computation time required increases considerably for larger instances [4] , so heuristic methods are usually employed. Cordeau et al. [5] review a number of different approaches, and the recent surveys by Bräysy and Gendreau [6]  and  [7] provide a complete list of studies utilizing a number of heuristics and a comparison of the results obtained. Although numerous meta-heuristic methods have been proposed, this paper concentrates on those using evolutionary computation methods, since they have a natural approach for dealing with multi-objective problems, and have been successful in many practical situations [8] . Evolutionary algorithms (EA) are based on Darwin's theory of evolution by natural selection: A population (set) of individuals (solutions) is maintained, and the EA selects , recombines , and mutates the fittest (best solutions) to replace the least fit, in the hope of producing solutions of increased fitness (quality). The evolutionary operations are repeated until the quality of solutions stops increasing, or some fixed number of generations (cycles) has been reached. A number of evolutionary and hybrid algorithms tackling the VRPTW are analyzed by Bräysy et al. [9] . Section 3 reviews the key approaches from that survey, as well as some more recent studies. The remainder of this paper is organized as follows: Section 2 provides definitions of the key issues relevant to this study, namely the formal specification of the VRPTW, and a brief introduction to the technicalities of multi-objective optimization and the associated performance metrics. Then Section 3 reviews the previous studies in these areas. Section 4 describes the multi-objective evolutionary algorithm proposed here for solving the VRPTW problem, and the underlying similarity measure. The experimental design used to test the algorithm is detailed in Section 5 , and the analysis of results is presented in Section 6 . Finally, some conclusions and ideas for future research in this area are provided in Section 7 . 2. Problem definitions This section provides an overview of the two crucial topics relevant to this study: the formal description of the VRPTW and the technicalities of multi-objective optimization. 2.1. The vehicle routing problem with time windows The VRPTW is a complex combinatorial optimization problem which is NP-hard [10] . The objective is to find a minimum-cost set of routes to deliver demand to customers, who have specific delivery time windows, by using a fleet of identical vehicles with limited capacity. An instance of the VRPTW can be formally defined as follows. First, there is a set V={0,…,N} V = { 0 , … , N } of vertices, and vertices in subset V * =V⧹{0}={1,…,N} V * = V ⧹ { 0 } = { 1 , … , N } are called customers   . Each customer i∈V * i ∈ V * is geographically located at coordinates ( x i , y i ), has a demand of goods g i >0 g i > 0 , a time window [ b i , e i ] during which it must be supplied, and a service time s i required to unload its goods. The special vertex 0 is called the depot   , from which the customers are serviced using a homogeneous fleet of vehicles with capacity Q ≥ max { g i : i ∈ V * } . The depot is positioned at ( x 0 , y 0 ), has demand g 0 = 0, and time window [ 0 , e 0 ≥ max { e i : i ∈ V * } ] .