  This study primarily focuses on solving a capacitated vehicle routing problem (CVRP) by applying a novel hybrid genetic algorithm (HGA) capable of practical use for manufacturers. The proposed HGA has three stages. First, the nearest addition method (NAM) was incorporated into sweep algorithm (SA) that simultaneously accounts for axial and radius relationships among distribution points with the depot to generate a well-structured initial chromosome population, rather than adopting either the NAM OR SA alone. Second, response surface methodology (RSM) was employed to optimize crossover probability and mutation probability via systematic experiments. Finally, an improved sweep algorithm was incorporated into the GA, producing a stir over gene permutations in chromosomes that enhance the exploration diversity of the GA, thereby avoiding convergence in a limited region, and enhancing the search capability of the GA in approaching a close-to-optimal solution. Furthermore, an elitism conservation strategy holding superior chromosomes to replace inferior chromosomes was also performed. As the proposed HGA is primarily used to solve practical problem, benchmark problems with fewer than 100 distribution points from an Internet website were utilized to confirm the effectiveness of the proposed HGA. A real case regarding the mission of local active distribution from armed forces in Taiwan details the analytical process and demonstrates the practicability of the proposed HGA to optimize the CVRP. Keywords Optimization ; Hybrid genetic algorithm ; CVRP ; RSM 1. Introduction The efficiency of distribution networks in a logistics system determines the speed of responses to rapidly changing market demands in this era of economic globalization, worldwide sourcing and mass customization. Furthermore, the increasingly effective radio frequency identification system has led manufactures to pay much attention to the issue of distribution networks to improve marketplace competitiveness. To obtain a business scale and satisfy various customer requirements, manufacturers typically increase the number of distribution points, which increases the complexity of distribution network operation. Therefore, effectively resolving vehicle route problems (VRPs) in a distribution network in a logistics system improves the capability of a distribution network, thereby enhancing market competitiveness – an essential issue for contemporary business. The VRP is, mathematically, a combinatorial optimization problem. Lawrence and Bruce (1981) proved that this problem type is non-deterministic polynomial-time (NP)-hard. Namely, the polynomial equation model of the VRP cannot be directly established to determine its optimal solution, and solving time for the VRP grows exponentially with the increase in distribution points, such that even the fastest computers are incapable of performing exhaustive computations required to determine an optimal solution. Hence, numerous studies have developed metaheuristic algorithms, such as genetic algorithms (GAs), ant colony systems and particle swam optimization, to obtain a close-to-optimal solution for the VRP. Metaheuristic algorithms have three impediments to efficiently solving complex optimization problems, these algorithms become trapped in local optimum, leading to a limited cycle, and cannot escape from a specific search region. These three impediments must be overcome to effectively optimize complex problems when applying metaheuristic algorithms ( Battiti & Tecchiolli, 1994 ). Some superior metaheuristic algorithms have recently been developed, and GAs have been shown to be capable of solving VRPs ( Baker & Ayechew, 2003 ). The search mechanism in the GA corresponds to chromosome evolution, comprising reproduction, crossover, and mutation during imitated breeding process. Typically, determining search direction solely relies on probability settings regarding chromosome mutation and crossover for generating offspring during the breeding process. Additionally, as is well known, the structure of the initial chromosome population (namely, initial solution population) significantly impacts the resolution capability of the GA. Essentially, the initial structured chromosome population in the form of gene permutations is markedly better than that generated randomly ( Baker & Ayechew, 2003 ). Because a GA and conventional heuristics are complementary, a hybrid approach typically outperforms using a GA or conventional heuristics alone. Numerous successful applications strongly favor such a hybrid approach ( Chen, Pan Jason, & Lin, 2008 ). In a hybrid approach, a GA primarily performs global exploration in a population, whereas heuristics mainly focus on local exploitation of chromosomes. Some heuristic algorithms, such as sweep algorithms (SAs) ( Gillett & Miller, 1974 ) and nearest addition method (NAM) ( Bentley, 1992 ), which are well known and practical, have been employed to generate an initial population. The SA is based on the axial clustering relationship among distribution points relative to a depot, whereas the NAM accounts for radius clustering relationships among distribution points relative to a depot. Baker and Ayechew (2003) applied an SA to generate an initial structured population for a GA. A hybrid heuristic, which incorporates a neighborhood search into a GA, has been developed to solve the VRP. The solution capability obtained by Baker and Ayechew (2003) were further compared with those obtained via a tabu search and simulated annealing techniques, thereby demonstrating the superiority of the GA. Baker and Ayechew (2003) also indicated that although development of modern heuristics has resulted in considerable progress, the quest for improved performance continues. The GA technique is widely used when solving practical VRPs in business. Despites the superiority of a GA, its application has some limitations. For example, until now, no systematic methods exist for optimizing GA parameter settings, including crossover probability, mutation probability and size of chromosomes. Consequently, improved GAs have shifted toward breeding ( Battiti and Tecchiolli, 1994  and  Angelov, 2001 ). This study solves a capacitated VRP (CVRP) using a proposed a hybrid GA (HGA) that can be used by manufacturers. The HGA has three stages. This study first incorporated NAM into an SA to account simultaneously for axial and radius relationships among distribution points relative to a depot to generate a well-structured initial chromosome population. Second, this study utilized response surface methodology (RSM) ( Montgomery, 2005 ) to optimize crossover probability and mutation probability through systematic experiments prior to employing the GA. A response surface model for the distance of a close-to-optimal route on crossover probability and mutation probability based on experimental data was established to determine the optimal probability settings for the two parameters. Finally, an improved SA was incorporated into the mutation process within the GA to produce a stir over gene permutations in chromosomes. This procedure enhances the exploration diversity of a GA, thus averting convergence in a limited region during the evolution process, and improves the search ability of a GA in approaching a close-to-optimal solution. Additionally, an elitism conservation strategy that replaces inferior chromosomes with superior chromosomes was performed during the GA evolution process. Because the proposed HGA is constructed to solve a practical problem, benchmark problems with fewer than 100 distribution points obtained from an Internet website were employed to verify the effectiveness of the proposed HGA. A real case, regarding the mission of a local active distribution task for the armed forces in Taiwan, presents the details of the analytical process and demonstrates the practicality of the proposed HGA in optimizing the CVRP. 2. Literature review The basic VRP consists of a number of customers, each requiring a specific weight of goods to be delivered. Vehicles with capacity constraints when delivering the required goods are dispatched from a single depot to demand points (namely, customers) and then return to the depot; the number of vehicles is not a constraint. Only one vehicle visits each customer. The general VRP comprises an assignment problem, traveling salesman problem and vehicle-path problem. Based on practical requirements, various extensions of the basic VRP involve such problems such as the capacitated vehicle problem, vehicle routing problem with a time window, the VRP with backhauls, and the VRP with pickup and delivery. For details of the VRP, refer to Toth and Vigo (2002) . As the complexity of the solution for the VRP is NP-hard, solution time exponentially increases as the number of distribution points increases. The mathematical programming technique can only be adopted to solve VRPs with small numbers of distribution points. With a large number of distribution points, even the fastest computer is incapable of performing the exhaustive computations required to determine an optimal solution. In 1986, Glover proposed the novel idea of global heuristics, thereafter studies on searching global optimum using metaheuristic algorithms, such as GAs, tabu search, neural network, simulated annealing, and an ant colony algorithm, to optimize complex problems have been continuous developed. Baker and Ayechew (2003) demonstrated that the GA can solve the VRP, and competes with the performance of tabu search and simulated annealing. Genetic algorithms focus on conversion of genes through genetic evolution, thereby solving complex optimization problems. Accordingly, offspring are bred based on chromosome evolution using operators incorporated into GA reproduction, mutation, and crossover to form a search mechanism. This search mechanism, corresponding to offspring breeding, is guided by probability. Goldberg (1989) summarized the attributes of GAs as follows: (1) Genetic algorithm calculations are based on coded parameters, rather than the parameter values. (2) Genetic algorithms posses highly parallel search capability, avoiding becoming trapped in a local optimum. (3) Genetic algorithms have no complex mathematical formulas – only the fitness function must be calculated. (4) Genetic algorithms have no specific rules for guiding the search direction for an optimum, rather, a random search mechanism uses the probability rule.