Password: In an e-commerce environment, order fulfilment is driven by customer demands and expectations. A dynamic vehicle routing and scheduling system may be specified which allows e-commerce customers to select their own delivery Time Windows and have these confirmed on-line as they place their order. The methodology is based upon demand forecasting, which leads to the generation of phantom orders and phantom routes. Subsequently, actual orders substitute for phantom orders in an on-line customer order process. The routing and scheduling method includes using both parallel tour-building and parallel insertion algorithms. Customer service levels are confirmed using GPS tracking and tracing, and a feedback loop uses expert systems or artificial intelligence as an input to the demand forecasting data to restart the whole process. Keywords Transport planning ; Vehicle routing and scheduling ; Time Windows ; Heuristics ; Parallel insertion algorithms ; Parallel tour-building Algorithms ; GPS tracking and tracing 1. Introduction Recent developments in e-commerce for marketing and selling physical products will change the role of logistics management, who need to adopt suitable order fulfilment practices to meet the growing demands and expectations of customers. One significant new customer expectation of the e-commerce fulfilment process is the customer's ability to select, at the time they specify on their order, a specific delivery time and date (often within a 30 minute Time Window) so that they receive their delivery. The order fulfilment process must be designed and planned to be able to guarantee such timed deliveries with a substantial degree of certainty at the time the customer places their order. The real value offered to the e-commerce customer in such a fulfilment process is created through a combination of the simplicity of placing orders at a time convenient to themselves, visibility of product availability at the time of placing the order, and the offer of a selection of Time Windows for delivery of the order. Such an offer is supported by the reliability that the delivery will arrive “in full, on time and with the correct documentation”. One of the most difficult problems for logistics management in such a fulfilment process is to solve how to plan and implement a cost effective delivery operation, in a dynamic environment, where commitments to customers must be given while orders are being received. Traditional vehicle routing and scheduling methods as described by the National Computing Centre (1969) rely on all orders being received before operational planning takes place and are, therefore, inappropriate when delivery commitments need to be given as each customer order is placed. E-commerce solutions imply a new approach is required to solve the Dynamic Vehicle Routing and Scheduling Problem (DVRSP). To avoid confusion, key words and abbreviations are defined in Appendix A  and  Appendix B . 2. Problem description The vehicle scheduling problem to support e-commerce operations may be defined in terms of the requirement as a Dynamic, Multi-Depot, Multi-Vehicle Pick-Up And Delivery Problem, With Time Windows (DMVPTW). In operational terms, this means that a vehicle scheduler located at a central facility receives orders at any time of the day, for delivery at a defined location throughout the country at a specified date and Time Window. More specifically: • the orders may be defined for delivery or collection; • the orders may be defined in case volume and weights; • the delivery location is defined as an address with a post code (or zip code); • the Time Window may be a 30 minute slot on a given day. The nature of the scheduler's operating environment has been defined by Bagchi and Nag (1991) as `dynamic' because they do not have the knowledge of the location and quantity of the next request, when the first request is taken and the vehicle must be committed for delivery. The scheduler must assign each order (or collection) under the specific operational constraints imposed by vehicles with a limited physical capacity, operating from a single depot, with defined maximum drivers' working hours in a day (or consecutive days), and require the vehicle to return to its point of origin. The plan must account for further operational constraints in terms of providing both a realistic travel time and drivers' working time for initial vehicle checks, vehicle loading, order delivery and collection time, unloading on return to the depot, vehicle re-fuelling plus cleaning and drivers' legally required daily break times. The objectives of the scheduler's task is to initially minimise either total mileage travelled or total hours worked and achieve the required Time Window for the delivery of each order while observing all other operational constraints (the vehicle routing problem). Furthermore, the scheduler has a time constraint to solve the problem, which is normally created by the imposition of an artificial `cut off time' from which no further customer orders will be taken for a delivery in the next or subsequent delivery wave (or shift) leaving the depots (the Vehicle Scheduling Problem). To support an e-commerce operation, the plan must include solutions to both the vehicle routing problem and the vehicle scheduling problem. In addition, the scheduling is dynamic because it must be able to offer Time Windows for a delivery and confirm an order will be delivered on-line as part of the procedure when a customer places an order (the DVRSP). 3. Existing scheduling models Transport managers have tackled the Vehicle Routing Problem (VRP) ever since multi-drop freight carrying vehicles were introduced. Mid-way through the 20th century, operations research academics and practitioners became interested. An early study by Dantzig and Ramser (1959) used a linear programme to select drop points by minimising distances between drop points on a route. Clark and Wright (1963) further developed the method to minimise total fleet mileage and Tyagi (1983) subsequently developed a practical means of minimising total distance travelled. However, as Goetschalckx (1988) pointed out, these routing problems have no restrictions on delivery times and focus exclusively on the spatial aspects of the problem, targeting minimum mileage. The Vehicle Scheduling Problem (VSP), however, focuses upon any time constraints imposed either by the customer or by the resources used to effect the delivery (the vehicle and driver). Bodin et al. (1983) reviewed the routing and scheduling literature defining three broad categories of requirements: 1. routing solutions to the VRP, 2. scheduling solutions to the VSP, 3. the combination of routing and scheduling solutions to the vehicle routing and scheduling problem (VRSP). When academic operations researchers address the complex Vehicle Routing and Scheduling Problem (VRSP), they tend to fragment the issues and tackle only a single issue in order to minimise the number of variables under consideration at any one time. For example, the Capacitated Vehicle Routing and Scheduling Problem (CVRP) which limits transport resources available is discussed by Crainic and Laporte (1998) who indicate that the best solutions were gained by branch-and-bound algorithms similar to those provided by Ross and Soland (1975) and Christofides et al., 1981a  and  Christofides et al., 1981b . Of particular practical significance have been those researchers who have focused upon the Pick-up and Delivery Problem with Time Windows (PDPTW). The single vehicle PDPTW has been solved for the Dial-A-Ride Problem (DRP) with different algorithms using dynamic programming by Psaraftis, 1980  and  Psaraftis, 1983 and Desrosiers et al. (1986) both of whom reported that the algorithm used became increasingly slower as the number of customers in the problem rose. Jaw et al. (1986) solved the DRP by using parallel insertion as a heuristic algorithm. The real difficulties of the VRSP was described by Lenstra and Kan (1981) as computational complexity because of the large number of variables and the multitude of outcomes available. Walters (1990) also recognised real complexity and uncertainty in algorithmic solutions and offered the use of `expert systems' to combine the human scheduler's skill and minimise both the potential variables and the potential outcomes. More practical real-life applications of Vehicle Routing Problems with Time Windows (VRPTW) offer heuristic algorithms as solutions. Rochat and Sement (1994) cover both customer accessibility restrictions and drivers' breaks by offering a two-stage approach. Firstly, they offer a combination of sequential and parallel insertion algorithms, followed by a Tabu Search algorithm to improve the original solution. Their second stage, or improvement phase, recognises that an initial heuristic solution may be improved upon by trial and error. This confirms a review by Magnanti (1981) that a practical VRSP cannot be solved with a linear programme providing an `optimum solution' but that such problems require heuristics which do not guarantee to find an optimum solution. Russell (1995) used a heuristic, with a parallel insertion algorithm and local search interchange, to successfully develop similar two-stage algorithms. The Multi-Depot Vehicle Routing Problem (MDVRP) has been solved by Renauld et al. (1996) using a heuristic with a petal algorithm improved by Tabu Search. The Vehicle Routing Problem with Backhaul and Time Window (VRPBTW) has also been solved using a two-stage algorithm by Thongiah et al. (1996) using parallel insertion and interchange methods. Duhamel et al. (1997) used similar techniques to solve the VRPBTW. Unfortunately, only limited examples may be found in the literature addressing the issue of Dynamic Vehicle Scheduling (DVS), particularly Haines and Wolfe (1982) , Bagchi and Nag (1991) , Psaraftis (1995) and Powell et al. (1995) . In these instances, DVS has been seen as reconfiguring an accepted plan in real-time due to changes in the orders requesting planning by the addition of a new request either in the form of a collection or a deletion of a customer's order.