The Vehicle Routing Problem with Time Windows (VRPTW) is a combinatorial optimization problem. It deals with route planning and the distribution of goods from a depot to geographically dispersed customers by a fleet of vehicles with constrained capacities. The customers’ demands are known and each customer has a time window in which it has to be supplied. The time windows are assumed to be soft, that means, violations of the time windows are allowed, but associated with penalties. The problem is to organize the vehicle routes optimally, i.e. to minimize the total costs, consisting of the number of used vehicles and the total distance, and the penalties simultaneously. Thus, the problem is formulated as a bicriterion minimization problem and heuristic methods are used to calculate approximations of the Pareto optimal solutions. Experimental results show that in certain cases the allowance of penalties leads to significant savings of the total costs. Keywords Logistics ; Heuristics ; Bicriterion optimization ; Vehicle Routing with Soft Time Windows 1. Introduction The Vehicle Routing Problem (VRP) goes back to Dantzig and Ramser (1959) who introduced it in 1959. The aim of the VRP is to determine an optimal set of routes for a fleet of vehicles that are used to distribute goods to customers with known demands. The routes have to start and end at a central depot, and each customer must be supplied only once by only one vehicle. The overall demands of the customers that are served by the same vehicle must not exceed the vehicle’s capacity. The problem is to minimize the total costs, consisting of the number of used vehicles and the total distance, subject to the above constraints. The VRP is an integer programming problem which belongs to the category of NP-hard problems. Since exact algorithms are usually computationally expensive, approximate solutions with sufficient accuracy that can be obtained fast are often desired. For that purpose, heuristic methods are used. In this paper the Vehicle Routing Problem with Time Windows (VRPTW) is considered since customers often have time windows in which the vehicle has to arrive and start the service. The time windows can be soft (VRPSTW) or hard (VRPHTW). Soft means, that violating the time windows is allowed, but associated with penalties. In contrast, hard time windows do not allow any delay. Several techniques have been developed for solving the VRPTW. There are four general types of exact solution methods: dynamic programming ( Kolen et al., 1987 ), Dantzig–Wolfe (column generation) ( Desrochers et al., 1992  and  Kohl et al., 1999 ), Lagrange decomposition ( Kohl and Madsen, 1997 ) and solving the classical model formulation directly. However, exact solution methods are very time consuming, and therefore not suitable for real life applications when results must be obtained quickly. Thus, approximation methods, namely, heuristics and metaheuristics are used. Simulated annealing ( Arbelaitz et al., 2001 , Czech and Czarnas, 2002 , Oliveira et al., 2006  and  Zhong and Pan, 2007 ), tabu search ( Osman, 1993 , Gendreau et al., 1994 , Taillard et al., 1997  and  Toth and Vigo, 1998 ), ant algorithms ( Colorni et al., 1991 , Bullnheimer et al., 1999  and  Barán and Schaerer, 2003 ), and genetic algorithms Holland, 1975 , Jong, 1975  and  Goldberg and Holland, 1988 , for example, range amongst the metaheuristic methods. Heuristics can be classified into route building and route improvement heuristics. Classical examples of route building heuristics are the Clarke and Wright (1964) savings heuristic, and the I1 route construction heuristic by Solomon (1987) . Route improvement heuristics, as for example the Or-opt procedure by Or (1976) and the 2-opt ∗ 2 - opt ∗ -procedure by Potvin and Rousseau (1995) , aim to improve an initial solution by exchanging customers within and between routes. This paper focuses on computing approximate solutions to the VRPSTW. By allowing violations of the customers’ time windows, solutions that cause less total costs might be obtained, but at the same time penalties arise. The problem is to minimize the total transportation costs, which consist of vehicle fixed costs and distance costs, and the penalties simultaneously. However, the more the total costs are reduced, the higher the penalties. These two conflicting objectives do not allow a unique optimal solution. The solutions are trade-offs between the total costs and the penalties and form a so-called Pareto front. From these Pareto solutions the decision maker has to choose the compromise that suits the problem at hand best. This paper is organized as follows: the theoretical background of multi-objective optimization problems and the ϵ -constraint technique which is used to solve the VRPSTW are described in Section 2 . In Section 3 the applied heuristic methods and the assumptions concerning the penalties are depicted. The used problem sets for testing the algorithm, as well as computational results are discussed in Sections 4  and  5 . Section 6 concludes the paper and future research topics are suggested. 2. The Vehicle Routing Problem with Soft Time Windows 2.1. Prerequisites of multi-objective optimization problems In this section the necessary concepts of multi-objective optimization problems, as well as the related fundamental terms are provided. The notations and definitions are taken from Coello et al., 2002 . For more detailed information on the topic, especially on methods for solving multi-objective optimization problems, the reader is referred to Miettinen (1999) .