Password: This paper is concerned with the bi-objective vehicle routing problem with time window constraints (BVRPTW). The BVRPTW is to determine the most favorable vehicle routes that minimize the total vehicle travel time and the total customer wait time which are, more often than not, conflicting. We construct a linear goal programming (GP) model for the BVRPTW and propose a heuristic algorithm to relieve a computational burden inherent to the application of the GP model. The heuristic algorithm consists of a parallel insertion method for clustering and a sequential linear goal programming procedure for routing. The results of computational experiments showed that the proposed algorithm finds successfully the more favorable solutions in most cases than the Potvin an Rousseau's method that is known as a very good heuristic for the VRPs with time window constraints. The proposed algorithm was capable of generating a numerous nondominated solutions through the change of the target values of the two objectives and the decision maker's preference on the objectives expressed as α . Keywords Bi-objective VRP ; Time windows ; Goal programming ; Heuristic 1. Introduction The main concern of distribution management is to design the optimal vehicle routes for customer service. The classic vehicle routing problem (VRP) is to determine a set of routes that minimizes total travel time or distance, originating and terminating at a central depot, for a fleet of vehicles which services a set of customers with known demands or supplies. Each customer is serviced exactly once and, furthermore, all the customers must be assigned to vehicles such that the restrictions on the capacity of vehicles and the duration of a route are met. Recently, the customer service to meet the required service time has been considered as an important issue in VRPs. The time window constraint is based upon the fact that a customer may require the earliest and latest service times by vehicle. The earliest and latest service times mean the lower and upper bounds of time window, each. The time window constraints exist in many areas such as retail distribution, school bus routing, industrial refuse collection, and after-sales service. The VRPs with time window constraints include temporal aspects as well as spatial aspects of vehicle movements, and need new solution techniques different from the existing solutions for the classic VRP. During the last 10 years, a considerable amount of research has been done on vehicle routing and scheduling problems with time windows. Excellent surveys may be found in Desrochers et al. [1] and Solomon and Desrosiers [2] . Badeau et al. [3] classified the methodologies for solving the problems as (a) exact algorithms – Desrochers et al. [4] , Kohl and Madsen [5] , Fisher et al. [6] ; (b) route construction heuristics – Potvin and Rousseau [7] , Russell [8] ; (c) route improvement heuristics – Potvin and Rousseau [9] , Solomon et al. [10] ; (d) composite heuristics that include both route construction and route improvement procedures – Kontoravdis and Bard [11] , Russell [8] ; (e) meta heuristics – tabu search 3 , 12  and  13 , simulated annealing [14] and genetic algorithms [15] . Full-size table In the VRPs with time window constraints, the service delay may be considered as a customer wait time when a vehicle arrives at a customer after its earliest service time. This is because, in some cases, the earliest service time can be considered as the most desirable time for customer to be served. The customer satisfaction will be improved by minimizing the customer wait time as an objective function. When a vehicle arrives at a customer before its earliest service time, the vehicle must wait to start a service until the earliest service time. The vehicle wait time is explicitly treated in the constraint for the vehicle return time to depot. The vehicle should arrive at customers before their latest service times. So far, we were not able to find out any paper in literature survey that treats explicitly the minimization of the customer wait time as an objective function in VRPs with time window constraints. In this paper, we deal with the bi-objective vehicle routing problem with time window constraints (BVRPTW). Two conflicting objectives are the minimization of total vehicle travel time and the minimization of total customer wait time. First, we construct a linear goal programming (GP) model and solve a simple example by applying it. Next, we propose a two-stage heuristic algorithm for the BVRPTW. In the first clustering stage, a parallel insertion procedure clusters a set of customers into various groups. In the second stage, a sequential linear GP (SLGP) procedure [16] is applied to each group to determine the most favorable vehicle routes. Finally, we perform the computational experiments to evaluate the proposed heuristic algorithm using the 21 test problems. 2. Goal programming model for BVRPTW A linear GP model for BVRPTW is constructed on the basis of the existing mathematical formulation of VRP [17] . In the GP model, NV virtual nodes ( N +1,…,  N +NV), whose locations are same as the starting depot node, augmented. These nodes correspond to returning depots for each of NV vehicles, respectively. The notation used in the GP model is summarized below: