  This paper introduces a new hybrid algorithmic nature inspired approach based on particle swarm optimization, for successfully solving one of the most popular supply chain management problems, the vehicle routing problem. The vehicle routing problem is considered one of the most well studied problems in operations research. The proposed algorithm for the solution of the vehicle routing problem, the hybrid particle swarm optimization (HybPSO), combines a particle swarm optimization (PSO) algorithm, the multiple phase neighborhood search–greedy randomized adaptive search procedure (MPNS–GRASP) algorithm, the expanding neighborhood search (ENS) strategy and a path relinking (PR) strategy. The algorithm is suitable for solving very large-scale vehicle routing problems as well as other, more difficult combinatorial optimization problems, within short computational time. It is tested on a set of benchmark instances and produced very satisfactory results. The algorithm is ranked in the fifth place among the 39 most known and effective algorithms in the literature and in the first place among all nature inspired methods that have ever been used for this set of instances. Keywords Nature inspired intelligence ; Vehicle routing problem ; Metaheuristics ; Particle swarm optimization ; Expanding neighborhood search 1. Introduction Several biological and natural processes have been influencing the methodologies in science and technology in an increasing manner in the past years. Nature inspired intelligence becomes increasingly popular through the development and utilization of intelligent paradigms in advanced information systems design. The methods contribute to technological advances driven by concepts from nature/biology including advances in structural genomics, mapping of genes to proteins and proteins to genes, modeling of complete cell structures, functional genomics, self-organization of natural systems, etc. 1 Among the most popular nature inspired approaches, when the task is optimization within complex domains of data or information, are those methods representing successful animal and micro-organism team behaviour, such as swarm or flocking intelligence (birds flocks or fish schools inspired particle swarm optimization Kennedy and Eberhart, 1995  and  Kennedy et al., 2001 ), artificial immune systems (that mimic the biological one Dasgupta, 1998  and  De Castro and Timmis, 2002 ), optimized performance of bees, or ant colonies (ants foraging behaviours gave rise to ant colony optimization Dorigo and Stutzle, 2004 ), etc. A number of nature inspired tools have been used to solve very diverse operations and supply chain management problems, like scheduling, organization of production and vehicle routing problems ( Rennard, 2006 ). Particle swarm optimization (PSO) is a population-based swarm intelligence algorithm that was originally proposed by Kennedy and Eberhart (1995) . PSO simulates the social behaviour of social organisms by using the physical movements of the individuals in the swarm. Its mechanism enhances and adapts to the global and local exploration. Most applications of PSO have concentrated on the optimization in continuous space while some work has been done to the discrete optimization ( Kennedy and Eberhart, 1997  and  Shi and Eberhart, 1998 ). Recent complete surveys for the particle swarm optimization can be found in Banks et al., 2007  and  Banks et al., 2008 and Poli et al. (2007) . The particle swarm optimization (PSO) is a very popular optimization method and its wide use, mainly during the last years, is due to the number of advantages that this method has, compared to other optimization methods. Some of the key advantages are that this method does not need the calculation of derivatives, that the knowledge of good solutions is retained by all particles and that particles in the swarm share information between them. PSO is less sensitive to the nature of the objective function, can be used for stochastic objective functions and can easily escape from local minima. Concerning its implementation, PSO can easily be programmed, has few parameters to regulate and the assessment of the optimum is independent of the initial solution. As there are not any competitive nature inspired methods based to particle swarm optimization, at least to our knowledge, for the solution of the vehicle routing problem we would like to develop such an algorithm and to test its efficiency compared to other nature inspired and classic metaheuristic algorithms. Thus, in this paper, we demonstrate how a nature inspired intelligent technique, the particle swarm optimization (PSO) ( Kennedy and Eberhart, 1995 ) and three metaheuristic techniques the multiple phase neighborhood search–greedy randomized adaptive search procedure (MPNS–GRASP), the expanding neighborhood search (ENS) ( Marinakis et al., 2005a ) and the path relinking (PR) ( Glover et al., 2003 ) can be incorporated in a hybrid scheme, in order to give very good results in the vehicle routing problem (VRP). Particle swarm optimization algorithms, due to their simplicity in coding and their global and local exploration abilities, are usually applied, with remarkable results, in continuous optimization problems. In this paper, we focused in the way a PSO algorithm can easily and efficiently be applied in a classic combinatorial optimization problem, like the vehicle routing problem. The main advantage of the application of a PSO algorithm in the VRP is that, in contrary to others metaheuristics, there are only two variables for each member of the population that will have to be calculated in each iteration, the position and the velocity. As we would like to increase more the efficiency of the particle swarm optimization we incorporated the three previously mentioned algorithms. More precisely: • In order to obtain more efficient initial solutions we applied the multiple phase neighborhood search–greedy randomized adaptive search procedure (MPNS–GRASP) instead of a random creation of the initial population ( Marinakis et al., 2009 ). • In order to improve the solutions of each particle in the swarm and to reduce the computational time of the algorithm the expanding neighborhood search strategy ( Marinakis et al., 2005a  and  Marinakis et al., 2005b ) is utilized. • The path relinking strategy ( Glover et al., 2003 ) is used in order to give a more efficient way to move the particles either to their local optimum or to the global optimum of the whole swarm. The rest of the paper is organized as follows: In the next section a description of the vehicle routing problem is presented. In the third section the proposed algorithm, the hybrid particle swarm optimization (HybPSO) is presented and analyzed in detail. Computational results are presented and analyzed in the fourth section while in the last section conclusions and future research are given.