Password: The periodic vehicle routing problem (PVRP) consists in establishing a planning of visits to clients over a given time horizon so as to satisfy some service level while optimizing the routes used in each time period. The tactical planning model considered here restricts its attention to scheduling visits and assigning them to vehicles while leaving sequencing decisions for an underlying operational model. The objective is twofold: to optimize regional compactness of the routes in a desire to specialize routes to restricted geographical area and to balance the workload evenly between vehicles. Approximate solutions are constructed using a truncated column generation procedure followed by a rounding heuristic. This mathematical programming based procedure can deal with problems with 50–80 customers over five working days which is the range of size of most PVRP instances treated in the literature with meta-heuristics. The paper highlights the importance of alternative optimization criteria not accounted for in standard operational models and provides insights on the implementation of a column generation based rounding heuristic. Keywords Branch and bound ; Combinatorial optimization ; Heuristics ; Integer programming ; OR in strategic planning ; Routing 0. Introduction The periodic vehicle routing problem (PVRP) combines the problematic of the standard vehicle routing problem with that of planning customer visits over a given time horizon: (1) one must decide on the dates for customer visits so as to satisfy some service level requirements (one tries to avoid stock-out situation or surplus at customer sites); then, (2) one must assign customer to vehicles and, finally, (3) one must optimize the route of each vehicle for each day of the time horizon. Vehicle loads that are defined as the sum of the customer demands included in the route are bounded. The PVRP admits several variants in terms of the objectives, the specific constraints and the type of solutions that are sought (a classification is presented in Mourgaya and Vanderbeck, in press ). In this study, a hierarchical optimization approach is adopted: decisions (1) and (2) are first stage decisions while (3) shall be optimized in a second stage where decisions (2) can also be reconsidered (decisions (2) and (3) define a vehicle routing problem – VRP). The first stage problem, called tactical planning , is the focus of this paper. Our objective is to minimize the Euclidean distance between customers visited by the same vehicle (a surrogate measure for distance traveled that favors routes associated with compact cluster of customers) while keeping a balanced workload between vehicles. A column generation formulation is used and heuristic primal solutions are derived by iteratively rounding the LP solution. In a previous publication ( Mourgaya and Vanderbeck, in press ), we developed a constructive heuristic for a real-life money transport application (it is much faster than the present approach but gives rise to lower quality solutions). Our hierarchical approach differs from previous studies of the PVRP where decisions (1)–(3) are taken simultaneously to optimize a standard operational objective such as minimizing travel costs ( Christofides and Beasley, 1984 , Tan and Beasley, 1984 , Ball, 1988 , Russel and Gribbin, 1991 , Gaudioso and Paletta, 1992 , Chao et al., 1995 , Cordeau et al., 1997  and  Vianna et al., 1998 ). In these references, there is either a single objective criteria or a hierarchical optimization of two criteria (with workload balancing used as a second criteria). The solution approaches used are typically a constructive heuristic followed by a local search procedure with the emphasis put on developing the improvement procedure. Tabu search and genetic algorithms are proposed respectively in Cordeau et al., 1997 , Angelelli and Speranza, 2002  and  Vianna et al., 1998 . The comparative results of Cordeau et al. (1997) show that their tabu search method gives the best results for the aggregate operational model. The literature also provides indications on the size of problems and subproblems that can be handled using the tools of exact optimization, constructive heuristics or local search heuristics. For the VRP, Toth and Vigo (2002) say that “the largest VRP instances that can be consistently solved by the most effective exact algorithms proposed so far contain about 50 customers”. Recently, Fukasawa et al. (2004) solved instances involving up to 200 customers and 17 vehicles by branch-and-price-and-cut (combining column and cut generation) within small deviation from optimality. Note that for a given number of customers, the problem gets easier as the number of vehicle increases as it implies smaller clusters. The variant with time window constraints are solved in Chabrier et al., 2002 , Feillet et al., 2004  and  Irnich and Villeneuve, 2003 . When time windows are very tight, the problem gets easier and exact column generation algorithms are able to handle problems with around 100 customers. Problems with looser time windows are harder. They have been solved for size ranging up to 50 customers. For a given number of customers, PVRP instances are typically harder to solve than VRP: not only one is confronted with the extra complexity layer of having to schedule the visits, but the number of vertices to include in routes is the number of customers multiplied by the number of visits to those customers. Hence, the above cited PVRP literature proposes only heuristics that have been tested on instances whose size ranges between 20 and 163 customers (with one exception: 417 customers) and 1–9 vehicles. Here again, for a fixed number of customers, the problem gets easier as the number of vehicles increases. By contrast, some of the real-life problem instances, like the one treated in Mourgaya and Vanderbeck (in press) , can involve several thousand of customers each with their own visit requirements which sum up to more than 10,000 visits to plan over say a 20 period time horizon with around 20 vehicles (yielding an average of around 40 customer visits per vehicle). The contribution of this paper is twofold. On the modeling side, it emphasizes the criteria that are important in the eyes of the practitioners and were ignored in the operational models treated in the literature (the paper offers some numerical evaluation of the trade-off between these conflicting objectives). On the algorithmic side, it illustrates how rounding heuristic can be applied in a column generation context. Few applications of this approach can be found in the literature. Rounding can be either apply directly to the variables of the column generation reformulation as in Vanderbeck (1999) or to the variables of the underlying original formulation as in Elhedhli and Goffin (2005) . The implementation described herein is more involved due to the complexity of the problem treated. Faced with a strongly NP-hard pricing problem, a quickly growing number of columns and some symmetry issues, we had to develop practical strategies for the initialization, the column generation procedure, the rounding procedure, and heuristic restrictions of the solution space. These strategies are evaluated by way of numerical comparisons. We hope that our study can provide insights for the application of a column generation based rounding heuristic to other applications. The paper is organized as follows. Section 1 presents the tactical planning model in details and discuss the practical relevance of the optimization criteria used in this study. Sections 2 , 3 , 4  and  5 describe the ingredients of our column generation based heuristic: column generation formulation, subproblem solver, initialization and rounding procedure. Sections 6  and  7 present computational comparison of various implementation strategies and our attempts to assess solution quality by comparison to dual bounds and to the PVRP solutions of the literature. We then conclude and discuss possible extensions of such approach to larger instances. 1. The tactical planning model The motivation for using a hierarchical approach to the PVRP are (i) to account for other optimization criteria that arise in tactical planning (such as minimizing the number of vehicle used, optimizing workload balancing, and regional specialization) and (ii) to deal with larger problems (leaving specific operational constraints such as time windows for visits, delivery time, visit sequence restrictions and the like for the operational model are essential simplifications for the tractability of the tactical planning model). We consider that service level requirements take the form of alternative feasible visit schedules for each customer that we call scenarios . They account for (i) prescribed frequency of visits, (ii) minimum and maximum time lag between successive visits, (iii) specificity of access to the location (such as avoiding market day), and (iv) a desired periodicity across time horizons by controlling initial and final time lag. In assigning customers to vehicles, our objective is twofold: we want to balance the workload between vehicles and we want to concentrate routes in limited geographical area, an objective that we call regionalization . We can also see if the vehicle fleet can be reduced in size and what are the consequences on vehicle workloads and regionalization.