  This paper addresses the robust vehicle routing problem with time windows. We are motivated by a problem that arises in maritime transportation where delays are frequent and should be taken into account. Our model only allows routes that are feasible for all values of the travel times in a predetermined uncertainty polytope, which yields a robust optimization problem. We propose two new formulations for the robust problem, each based on a different robust approach. The first formulation extends the well-known resource inequalities formulation by employing adjustable robust optimization. We propose two techniques, which, using the structure of the problem, allow to reduce significantly the number of extreme points of the uncertainty polytope. The second formulation generalizes a path inequalities formulation to the uncertain context. The uncertainty appears implicitly in this formulation, so that we develop a new cutting plane technique for robust combinatorial optimization problems with complicated constraints. In particular, efficient separation procedures are discussed. We compare the two formulations on a test bed composed of maritime transportation instances. These results show that the solution times are similar for both formulations while being significantly faster than the solutions times of a layered formulation recently proposed for the problem. Keywords Robust optimization ; Uncertainty polytope ; Vehicle routing problem ; Time windows ; Dynamic programming 1. Introduction This paper demonstrates how to efficiently solve the vehicle routing problem with time windows (VRPTW) when travel times are uncertain. The aim is to find robust solutions, where routes are feasible for all travel times defined by a predetermined uncertainty polytope. Although the formulations developed in this paper are general enough to describe many types of applications, the motivation for the work comes from maritime transportation, where routing problems are known to include many types of uncertainty [11] and where travel times and service times can vary due to unforeseen events such as bad weather, mechanical breakdowns and port congestion. Much research has been performed on vehicle routing problems, not the least due to its importance for applications in transportation, distribution and logistics [14] . Two well known classes of vehicle routing problems are the capacitated vehicle routing problem   (CVRP) and the VRPTW. The VRPTW VRPTW  and CVRP CVRP  share many common features, and path-flow formulations where integer variables represent paths in the network are very similar for both problems [21] . However, arc-flow formulations, where integer variables represent single arcs in the network, have notable differences: While it is straightforward to express the capacity constraint in the space of arc variables, time windows require either additional variables or an exponential number of inequalities [15] . We study integer programming formulations for a variant of the VRPTW VRPTW . More specifically, we study the problem where travel times belong to an uncertainty polytope. Hence, our approach falls into the framework of robust programming, where a solution is said to be feasible only if it is feasible for all realizations of the data in a predetermined uncertainty set T T . Robust programming stems from the original work of Soyster [22] and has witnessed a continuous attention in the last decade. We refer the interested reader to the survey from Bertsimas et al. [6] .