This paper proposes a two-stage (TS) algorithm with valid inequalities (TSVI) to optimally solve the split delivery vehicle routing problem (SDVRP). The first stage in the TSVI creates clusters that cover all demand and establishes a lower bound. The second stage calculates the minimal distance traveled for each cluster by solving the corresponding traveling salesman problem (TSP). The sum of the minimal distance traveled over all clusters yields an upper bound. The minimal distance of each TSP is added as cuts (constraints) into the first stage for the vehicles visiting all the points covered by the TSP problem. This iterative procedure stops with an optimal solution when no new clusters are created in the first stage. The TS scheme provides opportunities to develop strong valid inequalities for the first stage to improve the overall computational speed. Seven valid inequalities are developed. One of the valid inequalities is created to address the symmetric nature of a solution caused by the index combinations of vehicles. Another strong valid inequality is created to provide a lower bound on the distance traveled for each subset of demand points. Conditions under which a delivery to a demand point is not split in an optimal solution are studied in order to create additional valid inequalities. The numerical experiments show that the TSVI significantly outperforms other exact solution approaches provided in the literature for the SDVRP. Keywords Split delivery vehicle routing ; Optimization ; Two stage ; Valid inequality 1. Introduction The split delivery vehicle routing problem (SDVRP) was introduced to the vehicle routing problem literature by Dror and Trudeau (1989) . Unlike the capacitated vehicle routing problem (CVRP), the SDVRP allows the delivery to a demand point to be split between two or more vehicles. In many cases, allowing split deliveries results in significant savings both in the total distance traveled and the number of vehicles required compared to the corresponding CVRP solution. The savings are more significant when average customer demand exceeds 10% of the vehicle capacity ( Dror et al., 1994 ). Typically, cutting-plane algorithms with valid inequalities are used to solve the SDVRP. For example, Dror et al. (1994) provide a mixed-integer programming (MIP) formulation of the SDVRP and develop several valid inequalities using the optimality properties. A cutting-plane algorithm incorporating these valid inequalities is used to optimally solve small instances with up to 10 demand points. Belenguer et al. (2000) use a different formulation of the SDVRP and provide a polyhedral study of the problem. Their cutting-plane algorithm with several valid inequalities yields good lower bounds and even optimal solutions for some special instances. They use heuristic methods rather than an exact solution method to obtain feasible solutions. There are various practical problems that are modeled as the SDVRP in the literature. They are generally solved using heuristic algorithms. Frizzell and Giffin, 1992  and  Frizzell and Giffin, 1995 study the SDVRP and its variation with time windows on a grid network and develop constructive heuristics that use certain structural features of the problem. Mullaseril et al. (1997) use a heuristic algorithm for a livestock feed distribution problem encountered on a cattle ranch in Arizona. Sierksma and Tijssen (1998) propose an algorithm based on column generation techniques with other heuristics to determine a flight schedule for helicopters to off-shore platform locations for exchanging work crews in the North Sea. Archetti et al. (2006) develop a Tabu search algorithm for the SDVRP. There are few exact algorithms in the SDVRP literature. Lee et al. (2006) develop a dynamic programming (DP) model with infinite state and action spaces. They present an equivalent DP model with a finite action space for any given initial condition and use a best-first shortest path search procedure to solve the equivalent DP model. It takes their shortest path search procedure, which is an exact algorithm, more than 4 h to solve their largest instance with nine demand points and six vehicles. This instance can be solved by our proposed two-stage (TS) algorithm with valid inequalities (TSVI) in less than 1 s. The SDVRP is not as widely studied as the CVRP. The exact algorithms provided in the literature can only solve SDVRP instances with a small size of around 10 demand points. On the other hand, there are exact algorithms that can solve CVRP instances with about 100 demand points. The remainder of the paper is organized as follows. In Section 2 , an SDVRP model is provided. To solve the SDVRP model given in Section 2 , a TS scheme is developed in Section 3 . For the first stage of our TS scheme, seven valid inequalities are introduced in Section 4 . In Section 5 , numerical experiments are conducted to compare the TSVI algorithm with other existing algorithms in the literature. Section 6 concludes the paper. 2. The SDVRP definition and model The SDVRP can be represented by a graph G= ( V, E ) ,   where V = { 0 , 1 , … , N } is a set of vertices and E= {( i, j ) : i ≠ j } is a set of edges. The vertex 0 denotes the depot at which a fleet of identical vehicles with capacity Q are located. The other N vertices correspond to demand points. A positive weight c ij is associated with each edge (i, j) and represents the distance between vertex i and vertex j . The c ij values are assumed to be symmetric and satisfy the triangular inequality. A positive demand d i is associated with each demand point i   , and d 0 =0 d 0 = 0 . The objective of the SDVRP is to find vehicle routes that minimize the total distance traveled and also satisfy the following conditions: • the demand d i of demand point i is delivered by one or more vehicles; • all vehicle routes start and end at the depot; • the total delivery serviced by any vehicle does not exceed its capacity.