Password: This paper presents the development of a decision support system used by an oil downstream company for routing and scheduling purposes. The studied problem refers to a complex delivery process of oil products from a number of distribution centers to all customers. The latest rapid advance of operations research (OR) applications, in the form of advanced planning and scheduling (APS) systems, has shown that OR algorithms can be applied in practice if (a) they are embodied in packaged information technology (IT) solutions, (b) the interface problems to mainstream ERP software applications are solved. In this study the utilisation of advanced IT systems supports effectively the planning and management of distribution operations. The combination of a supply chain management (SCM) application with a geographical information system (GIS) integrated with an enterprise resource planning (ERP) software resulted to this innovative decision support tool. The objectives of this new tool are: optimum use of the distribution network resources, transportation cost reduction and customer service improvement. The paper concludes with the benefits of the new system, emphasising at how new technologies can support transportation processes with the help of operations research algorithms embedded in software applications. Keywords Decision support system ; Supply chain management ; Routing ; Information systems integration ; Oil industry 1. Physical distribution and vehicle routing Physical distribution, as a component of the supply chain, includes a set of activities executed to obtain the delivery of a product from the production location to the end customer [26] . Problems related to physical distribution are: selection of distribution channels, determination of customer service level, distribution centers’ location planning, inventory management, transportation means selection, fleet composition, delivery scheduling and vehicle routing. Vehicle routing [23] refers to a broad group of problems that could be expressed as following: a finite set of customers at fixed locations with defined demand, must be supplied with goods by a number of vehicles having a finite capacity and predefined starting points and terminals. The vehicle routing and scheduling problem consists of two sub-problems: the customer grouping to routes (clustering) and the definition of the optimum tour for every route (cluster). Therefore, route is the total number of deliveries made by a single vehicle and tour is their sequence. The solution of these sub-problems results to the routes and tours that minimise the total transportation cost. Vehicle routing and scheduling performed in the supply chain context is a complex process. Alter [1] offers a simple definition of a system’s complexity in stating that it is a function of the number of differentiated components and the number and nature of their interactions. The characteristics that Alter describes can be compared with those to which Scuricini [31] refers, who identifies four attributes of complexity: numerosity of components, variety of components, type of components and organisation. The complexity of vehicle routing and scheduling process lies on the fact that there are many constraints and parameters to consider, concerning the available transportation means, the products, the depots, the customers and the road network [20] . A company’s dispatcher is usually responsible for the execution of the described complex process, which is focused on the effective resource planning of the distribution system so that the products are delivered to customers on time. The effectiveness of the process suggests a balance between the high-level customer service and the corresponding total cost. The dispatcher’s tasks that are managed by the designed system include customer allocation to distribution centers, customer order grouping and dispatching to the vehicles, as well as determination of the sequence of deliveries. 2. The integration of information technology and OR algorithms 2.1. Heuristics for the vehicle routing problem Many authors have suggested a number of solution methods for the vehicle routing problem. Heuristics have been developed and applied to many routing and scheduling case studies and several researchers have compared and evaluated these methods [5] , [15] , [17] , [21]  and  [22] . The advantage of the heuristics is their ability to handle efficiently a large number of constraints and parameters of the routing problem. They perform a relatively limited exploration of the search space and generally produce good quality solutions within modest computing time. Therefore, classical heuristics are still widely used in commercial software packages. Heuristics for the vehicle routing problem can be classified into two main classes: classical heuristics, developed between 1960 and 1990 and metaheuristics whose growth has occurred in the last decade [22] . The most well known classical heuristics are the Savings and Sweep algorithms. The most successful metaheuristic approach is the tabu search heuristics. In terms of the solution procedure, classical heuristics can be classified in sequential and parallel. Sequential heuristic algorithms solve the vehicle routing sub-problems (clustering and finding best tour) separately and consecutively. Parallel heuristics produce routes and tours concurrently and can be classified in construction and improvement methods. Clarke and Wright [7] developed a parallel heuristic, known as the Savings algorithm. Sweep algorithm, which is attributed to Gillett and Miller [16] , is the most common sequential heuristic. Other classical heuristics include sequential improvement methods, insertion methods [24] , exchange algorithms, petal algorithms, cluster first route second algorithms, nearest neighbour and simulated annealing methods. In metaheuristics, the emphasis is on performing a deep exploration of the most promising regions of the solution space. These methods typically combine sophisticated neighbourhood search rules, memory structures and recombination of solutions. The quality of solutions produced by these methods is usually much higher than that obtained by classical heuristics but the computing time is increased. 2.2. Advanced planning and scheduling systems: The OR practice using IT Modern information technology supports the definition and analysis of the factors influencing the routing process, a problem difficult to solve using empirical methods. Nowadays, there are software applications that manage supply chain processes at all three decisional levels of management ( Table 1 ), including features of transportation planning and execution: • high level (strategic)––these applications offer transportation planning and fleet composition modules; • middle level (tactical)––these applications allocate resources to the general transportation plan derived from the previous level; • low level (operational)––at this level the applications are oriented to detailed scheduling of routes and tours on a daily basis.