Password: In the heterogeneous fixed fleet vehicle routing problem there are different types of vehicles and a given number of vehicles of each type. The resolution of this problem consists of assigning the customers to the existing vehicles and, in relation to each vehicle, defining the order of visiting each customer for the delivery or collection of goods. The objective is to minimize the total costs, satisfying customers’ requirements and visiting each customer exactly once. In this paper a tabu search algorithm is proposed and tested on several benchmark problems. The computational experiments show that the proposed algorithm produces high quality solutions within an acceptable computation time. Four new best solutions are reported for a set of test problems used in the literature. Keywords Heterogeneous fixed fleet ; Vehicle routing ; Tabu search ; Heuristics ; Logistics 1. Introduction The heterogeneous fixed fleet vehicle routing problem (HFFVRP) is defined on an undirected connected graph G =( V , E ), where V ={0, 1, …,  n } is a vertex set and E ={( i , j ): i , j ∈ V } is an edge set. Vertex 0 represents the depot and each other vertex i ∈ V \{0} is a customer with a demand q i . A distance d ij ( d ii =0, ∀ i ∈ V ) is associated to each edge ( i, j )∈ E . There is a fleet of T different types of vehicles located at the depot, and the number of vehicles of each type is n k ( k =1, …,  T ). A capacity Q k and a variable cost v k are associated to each type of vehicle k ( k =1, …,  T ). We assume that Q 1 < Q 2 …< Q T and v 1 <v 2 …< v T . The travelling cost of each edge ( i , j )∈ E by a vehicle of type k is c ij = v k d ij . The HFFVRP consists of defining a set of routes and the vehicles assigned to them so that the following constraints are taken into account: (i) use no more vehicles than those available; (ii) satisfy customers’ demand; (iii) visit each customer exactly once; (iv) a vehicle route starts and finishes at the depot; (v) do not exceed the capacity of the vehicle. We will refer indistinctly to route type or vehicle type because each route is assigned to one vehicle. The objective of the HFFVRP is to minimize the sum of the costs of all the routes subject to the previous constraints. Considering the fact that the number of vehicles of each type is fixed, there is no guarantee that a feasible solution can be found. This means that, if this happens in real-life problems, other vehicles have to be hired in order to serve the customers. The HFFVRP is an NP -hard combinatorial problem, since it reduces to the capacitated vehicle routing problem (CVRP) if the number of types of vehicles is just one, i.e., the vehicle fleet is homogeneous, and the number of vehicles is unlimited. If we assume that the number of vehicles of each type is unlimited, we get another type of problem known as the fleet size and mix vehicle routing problem (FSMVRP). Although very similar, these two types of problems are applied in rather different situations: the FSMVRP is more appropriate for strategic decisions when a company wants to buy a vehicle fleet and needs to define its size and composition, while the HFFVRP represents better the operational decisions of defining the vehicles that should be used, among those available, in order to serve the customers. On the other hand, the HFFVRP has been much less studied than the FSMVRP, and is rather harder to solve, according to our experience. This additional difficulty might be the reason why, as conjectured by Taillard [1] , it has received less attention from researchers. When the ratio between the total demand of the customers and the total capacity of the vehicles is close to one even finding a feasible solution can be very difficult. In the general case, to prove if a given homogeneous fleet is enough to satisfy the demand requires to solve a bin packing problem, which is an NP-hard problem [2] . If the fleet is heterogeneous, we deal with an extension of the bin packing problem with bins of different sizes and, therefore, it is also NP-hard, but much less studied than the problem with only one type of bin (see, for example, [3] ) and much more difficult to solve. In the literature there are many variants of the heterogeneous vehicle routing problem, besides the two mentioned before. The interested reader can find a comprehensive classification in Paraskevopoulos et al. [4] , jointly with several representative articles. In this article the authors present an algorithm to solve both the FSMVRP and the HFFVRP with time windows. In the case of the FSMVRP, several references and applications can also be found in Brandão [5] . In practice, the need for different types of vehicles is determined by the characteristics of the customers. Usually, larger vehicles are more appropriate for serving customers who require large orders (because this avoids splitting the order and reduces the total distance travelled by serving several customers in the same route) and the smaller vehicles are more adequate to deliver small quantities or serve customers that have access restrictions. For the daily planning the most important costs to be considered in the objective function are the variable costs. Therefore, we omitted the fixed costs as is the case with all researchers that have investigated the HFFVRP. In Li et al. [6] can be found several examples of practical applications of the HFFVRP. Some authors, as for example, Semet and Taillard [7] , Rochat and Semet [8] , Brandão and Mercer [9] and Oppen and Lokketangen [10] , have studied real-life problems that can be classified as extensions of the HFFVRP, since they comprise several additional constraints, like time windows at the customers for the deliveries, maximum driving time, etc. Below, we will briefly review some of the literature on HFFVRP resolution methods. As far as we know, the only papers published about the HFFVRP are the following: Taillard [1] , Tarantilis et al. [11]  and  [12] and Li et al. [6] . The method proposed by Taillard [1] takes advantage of the similarities between the VRP and the HFFVRP. The author solves a VRP, for each type of vehicle, using the adaptive memory procedure developed by Rochat and Taillard [13] , generating a large number of routes. Then, in order to find from these routes the best solution for the HFFVRP, the author uses a linear programming algorithm called column generation. Tarantilis et al. [11]  and  [12] used a stochastic search method, belonging to the class of threshold accepting based methods [14] , where the threshold parameter plays a major role in guiding the search process. In [11] the authors use a list of threshold values in the search, while in [12] the main feature is that, during the search, the threshold value can suffer an occasional increase instead of decreasing monotonically as is typical of this kind of methods. These two algorithms are called, respectively, list based threshold accepting (LBTA) and backtracking adaptive threshold accepting (BATA). The kinds of moves used in both algorithms are 2-opt, 1-1 exchange and 1-0 exchange. All these types of moves are applied inside each route and among all the routes of the current solution. The type of move performed in each iteration and the customers used in the move are chosen randomly. Li et al. [6] adapted their record-to-record travel algorithm for the VRP [15] to solve the HFFVRP, which was named HRTR. The methodology used by them is based on Dueck's [16] record-to-record travel, which is a deterministic variant of simulated annealing. In their algorithm are used the following types of moves: one point (node), two point, 2-opt and or-opt, all of which can be performed within and between routes. If after a given number of iterations no new better solution is found the best known solution is perturbed, and the process restarts with this solution. Since we have created an algorithm for the FSMVRP [5] , our first attempt was to adapt it, making a few changes, to solve the HFFVRP. However, the experiments have demonstrated that these changes were not enough to find competitive solutions comparing to the other algorithms published. Therefore, although several characteristics of that algorithm were maintained some significant changes had to be introduced. The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 describes the tabu search algorithm (TSA) for solving the HFFVRP, presenting, firstly, its main features and then a step by step description that shows how the different components work together and, finally, the proposed parameters setting is discussed. In Section 3 are given the results obtained on three sets of test problems, and the final conclusions are presented in Section 4 . 2. The tabu search algorithm The tabu search (TS) is a metaheuristic due to Glover [18] , [19]  and  [20] that was inspired by the principles of Artificial Intelligence, especially, the use of memory. The tabu list is one of the ways of using memory, by storing in a list the solutions explored throughout the search or, more commonly, some relevant attributes of these solutions. This tabu list has two main purposes: to prevent the return to the most recent visited solutions in order to avoid cycling; to drive the search towards regions of the solution space not yet explored and with high potential of containing good solutions. A successful application of TS requires a good balance between intensification and diversification. The intensification is a detailed exploration of some region of the solution space, usually in the vicinity of a good solution. The diversification consists in driving the search towards promising regions of the solution space not yet explored and apart from one another, in terms of structure. In operational terms, the TS consists of moving successively, in each iteration, from one solution S to the best of its neighbour solutions, N ( S ), not in the tabu list or, if so, satisfying some aspiration criterion.