  The vehicle routing problem (VRP), a well-known combinatorial optimization problem, holds a central place in logistics management. This paper proposes an improved ant colony optimization (IACO), which possesses a new strategy to update the increased pheromone, called ant-weight strategy, and a mutation operation, to solve VRP. The computational results for fourteen benchmark problems are reported and compared to those of other metaheuristic approaches. Keywords Vehicle routing problem ; Improved ant colony optimization ; Ant-weight strategy ; Mutation operation 1. Introduction Finding efficient vehicle routes is a representative logistics problem which has been studied for the last 40 years. A typical vehicle routing problem (VRP) aims to find a set of tours for several vehicles from a depot to a lot of customers and return to the depot without exceeding the capacity constraints of each vehicle at minimum cost. Since the customer combination is not restricted to the selection of vehicle routes, VRP is considered as a combinatorial optimization problem where the number of feasible solutions for the problem increases exponentially with the number of customers increasing ( Bell and McMullen, 2004 ). Heuristic algorithms such as simulated annealing (SA) ( Chiang and Russell, 1996 , Koulamas et al., 1994 , Osman, 1993  and  Tavakkoli-Moghaddam et al., 2006 ), genetic algorithms (GAs) ( Baker and Ayechew, 2003 , Osman et al., 2005 , Thangiah et al., 1994  and  Prins, 2004 ), tabu search (TS) ( Gendreau et al., 1999 , Semet and Taillard, 1993 , Renaud et al., 1996 , Brandao and Mercer, 1997  and  Osman, 1993 ) and ant colony optimization ( Doerner et al., 2002 , Reimann et al., 2002 , Peng et al., 2005 , Mazzeo and Loiseau, 2004 , Bullnheimer et al., 1999  and  Doerner et al., 2004 ) are widely used for solving the VRP. Among these heuristic algorithms, ant colony optimizations (ACO) are new optimization methods proposed by Italian researchers Dorigo et al. (1996) , which simulate the food-seeking behaviors of ant colonies in nature. It has been successfully applied as a solution to some classic compounding optimization problems, e.g. traveling salesman ( Dorigo et al., 1996 ) quadratic assignment ( Gambardella et al., 1997 ), job-shop scheduling ( Colorni et al., 1994 ), telecommunication routing ( Schoonderwoerd et al., 1997 ), etc. If taking the central depot as the nest and customers as the food , the VRP is very similar to food-seeking behaviors of ant colonies in nature. This makes the coding of an ant colony optimization for the VRP is simple. Among the earliest studies was that of Bullnheimer et al. (1997) who presented a hybrid ant system algorithm with the 2-opt and the saving algorithm for the VRP. Other researches of the ACOs to the VRP included the work by Bullnheimer et al., 1999 , Bell and McMullen, 2004  and  Chen and Ting, 2006 . In the ACOs, the 2-opt exchange was used as an improvement heuristic within the routes found by individual vehicles and the pheromone updating rules mainly considered the global feature of the solution. This paper proposes an improved ant colony optimization with a new pheromone updating rule that can integrate the global feature and the local feature, a mutation operation and the 2-opt exchange for the VRP. The remainder of the paper is organized as follows. Section 2 presents the mathematical model for VRP. In Section 3 , we present the IACO with ant-weight strategy and the mutation operation. Some computational results are discussed in Section 4 and lastly, the conclusions are provided in Section 5 . 2. Vehicle routing problem The VRP is described as a weighted graph G  = ( C ,  L ) where the nodes are represented by C  = { c 0 , c 1 , …,  c N } and the arcs are represented by L  = {( c i , c j ):  i  ≠  j }. In this graph model, c 0 is the central depot and the other nodes are the N customers to be served. Each node is associated with a fixed quantity q i of goods to be delivered (a quantity q 0  = 0 is associated to the depot c 0 ). To each arc ( c i , c j ) is associated a value d i , j representing the distance between c i and c j . Each tour starts from and terminates at the depot c 0 , each node c i must be visited exactly once, and the quantity of goods to be delivered on a route should never exceed the vehicle capacity Q . 3. Improved ACO for VRP 3.1. Generation of solutions Using ACO whose colony scale is P , an individual ant simulates a vehicle, and its route is constructed by incrementally selecting customers until all customers have been visited. The customers, who were already visited by an ant or violated its capacity constraints, are stored in the infeasible customer list ( tabu ). The decision making about combining customers is based on a probabilistic rule taking into account both the visibility and the pheromone information. Thus, to select the next customer j for the k th ant at the i th node, the ant uses the following probabilistic formula. equation ( 1 ) p ij ( k ) = τ ij α × η ij β ∑ h ∉ tabu k τ ih α × η ih β j ∉ tabu k 0 otherwise where p ij ( k ) is the probability of choosing to combine customers i and j on the route, τ ij the pheromone density of edge ( i ,  j ), η ij the visibility of edge ( i ,  j ), α and β the relative influence of the pheromone trails and the visibility values, respectively and tabu k is the set of the infeasible nodes for the k th ant.