Password: This paper describes a tabu search heuristic for a vehicle routing problem where the owner of a private fleet can either visit a customer with one of his vehicles or assign the customer to a common carrier. The owner’s objective is to minimize the variable and fixed costs for operating his fleet plus the total costs charged by the common carrier. The proposed tabu search is shown to outperform the best approach reported in the literature on 34 benchmark instances with a homogeneous fleet. Keywords Vehicle routing ; Private fleet ; Common carrier ; Tabu search 1. Introduction In this work, we consider the vehicle routing problem with private fleet and common carrier (VRPPC), where each customer is served by one of the vehicles of an internal fleet or by an external common carrier. When a customer is assigned to the common carrier, a penalty cost is incurred which represents all costs associated with this assignment (since the specific route followed by the common carrier is not known). The objective of the private fleet’s owner is to minimize the sum of fixed vehicle costs, travel costs and common carrier costs. Clearly, customers must be referred to the common carrier if the total demand from the customers exceeds the internal fleet capacity. However, it can also be more economical to do so. A single-vehicle version of this problem is first mentioned in [17] and later solved to optimality with a branch-and-bound algorithm in [9] for problems with up to 200 customers. In [2] , the problem is introduced as a special case of the prize collecting TSP (PCTSP), which is defined in [1] as follows: “A salesman who travels between pairs of cities at a cost depending only on the pair, gets a prize in every city that he visits and pays a penalty to every city that he fails to visit, wishes to minimize his travel costs and penalties, while visiting enough to collect a prescribed amount of prize money”. When there is no prize associated with the vertices or, alternatively, when the prescribed amount is null, the single-vehicle version of the problem is obtained. The multi-vehicle version is first reported and solved in [6] with a savings-based construction heuristic, followed by intra- and inter-route customer exchanges. The authors in [3] do better by using two different initial solutions that are then improved with more sophisticated customer exchanges. Finally, even better results are reported in [4] on a set of benchmark instances with vehicle fleets that are either homogeneous or heterogeneous. A perturbation metaheuristic combines a local descent based on different neighborhood structures with two diversification strategies, namely a randomized construction procedure and a perturbation mechanism where a number of pairs of customers are swapped. A variant of the problem is finally addressed in [13] in a context where the customers are partitioned into sectors and the private and common carrier fleet size must be determined for each sector. In this paper, we present a new metaheuristic approach, based on tabu search, for solving the VRPPC with a homogeneous fleet of vehicles. It is empirically demonstrated on a set of benchmark instances that this metaheuristic outperforms the best known approach reported in the literature with regard to solution quality and computation time. The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. In Section 2 , the problem is formally introduced. Then, our problem-solving methodology is described in Section 3 . Computational results are reported in Section 4 . Finally, a conclusion follows. 2. Problem formulation a vehicle from the private fleet serves a single route that starts and ends at the depot; • every customer is visited exactly once either by a vehicle of the private fleet or by the common carrier; • the total demand on each vehicle route of the private fleet should not exceed the capacity Q ; • the sum of travel costs, fixed vehicle costs and common carrier costs is minimized.