Password: This paper presents a dynamic vehicle routing and scheduling model that incorporates real time information using variable travel times. Dynamic traffic simulation was used to update travel times. The model was applied to a test road network. Results indicated that the total cost decreased by implementing the dynamic vehicle routing and scheduling model with the real time information based on variable travel times compared with that of the forecast model. As well, in many cases total running times of vehicles were also decreased. Therefore, the dynamic vehicle routing and scheduling model will be beneficial for both carriers in reducing total costs and society at large by alleviating traffic congestion. Keywords Intelligent transportation systems ; Dynamic routing and scheduling ; Traffic simulation ; Genetic algorithms ; Traffic congestion ; City logistics Several researchers (e.g. Ruske, 1994 ; Kohler, 1997 ; Taniguchi and van der Heijden, 2000 ; Taniguchi et al., 2001a ) have proposed the idea of “city logistics” to solve urban freight transport problems associated with congestion, negative environmental impacts such as air pollution and noise. City logistics has been defined as, “the process for totally optimising the logistics and transport activities by private companies with the support of advanced information systems in urban areas considering the traffic environment, its congestion, safety and energy savings within the framework of a market economy” ( Taniguchi et al., 2001b ). There are numerous types of city logistics schemes that have either already been implemented or are proposed, including: (a) Advanced information systems. (b) Co-operative freight transport systems. (c) Public logistics terminals. (d) Load factor controls. (e) Underground freight transport systems. This paper focuses on vehicle routing and scheduling procedures using advanced information systems or intelligent transport systems (ITS) in urban areas. Freight carriers have depots and their pickup/delivery trucks depart from the depot and visit customers with designated time windows for collecting or delivering goods and return to the depot. This paper presents a dynamic vehicle routing and scheduling model with real time traffic information, in particular variable travel times on roads. The uncertainty of travel times effects the identification of the optimal routes and schedules of pickup/delivery trucks on very congested urban roads. Recently the implementation of automatic vehicle identification (AVI) systems using video based systems or global positioning systems (GPS) allows freight carriers to use historical and real time travel time data on urban roads. This paper presents a model that can be used to quantify the benefits of considering the uncertainty of travel times in order to rationalise logistics systems and reduce the negative impacts of goods movement on the environment. Travel time information based on ITS can be divided into three categories: (a) Historical. (b) Real time. (c) Predicted. Historical travel times provide data relating to changes in travel times in the past. If travel times follow a normal distribution, it can be used to represent historical travel times on the links of road network. Probabilistic vehicle routing and scheduling procedures require historical travel time information for determining the optimal starting time and visiting order of customers. Real-time travel times represent dynamic information relating to changes in travel times at the present time. In reality, for example, travel times 5 min before the current time will be typically be provided by advanced information systems. Dynamic vehicle routing and scheduling procedures require real-time travel time information. Predicted travel times are valuable for making vehicle operational plans taking into account the effects of sporting events, road construction work, etc. But techniques for accurately predicting future traffic conditions are required. A number of researchers (e.g. Solomon, 1987 ; Russell, 1995 ; Bramel and Simchi-Levi, 1996 ; Potvin et al., 1996 ; Taniguchi et al., 1998 ) have investigated vehicle routing problems with time windows (VRPTW). Other researchers have studied stochastic vehicle routing and scheduling problems (e.g. Jaillet and Odoni, 1988 ; Powell et al., 1995 ; Gendreau et al., 1996 ). Most research in this area has focused on dynamic routing and scheduling that considers variations in customer demands. However, there has been limited research on routing and scheduling with variable travel times ( Laporte et al., 1992 ; Taniguchi et al., 1999 ). Fig. 1 presents the calculation procedures used in this study. There are two types of problems: (a) Forecasted vehicle routing and scheduling problem with time windows (VRPTW-F). (b) Dynamic vehicle routing and scheduling problem with time windows (VRPTW-D). The VRPTW-D model is defined as follows. A depot and a number of customers are defined for each freight carrier. A fleet of identical vehicles collects goods from customers and delivers them to the depot or delivers goods to customers from the depot. For each customer a designated time window, specifying the desired time period to be visited is also specified. For example, in the case of collecting goods, vehicles depart from the depot and visit a subset of customers for picking up goods in sequence and return to the depot to unload them. A vehicle is allowed to make multiple trips per day. Each customer must be assigned to exactly one route of a vehicle and all the goods from each customer must be loaded onto the vehicle at the same time. The total weight of the goods in a route must not exceed the capacity of the vehicle. This problem is used to determine the optimal assignment of vehicles to customers and the departure time as well as the order of visiting customers for a freight carrier. The VRPTW-D explicitly incorporates real time information on travel times for identifying the optimal routes and departure times of vehicles, whereas the VRPTW-F does not take this into account. Fig. 1.  Firstly, the VRPTW-F contains a dynamic traffic simulation that gives forecasted link travel times. Then vehicle routing and scheduling planning is undertaken on the previous day to identify the optimal departure time from a depot and visiting order of customers. On the current day vehicle operations are executed without changing the visiting order of customers and route. Secondly, the VRPTW-D is based on the same vehicle routing and scheduling plan that was undertaken on the previous day. However, plans are revised using real time information of present link travel times, whenever a vehicle arrives at a customer. This real time information is provided by dynamic traffic simulation based on the current conditions of the day. The VRPTW-D is therefore based on more accurate travel time data than the VRPTW-F. In particular if a road was blocked due to a crash or other traffic impediments, the VRPTW-D can give lower cost vehicle routing and scheduling plans than the VRPTW-F. Note that the VRPTW-D model requires the optimal starting time to visit customers that is identified by vehicle routing and scheduling planning using VRPTW-F model from the previous day, while the visiting order of customers in the current day will be revised using real time information of present travel times. Dynamic traffic simulation for both VRPTW-F and VRPTW-D provides the forecasted link travel times within a network. The simulation at the beginning of the calculation procedure is done using a normal traffic generation pattern for determining the average travel times on each link. Whereas the dynamic traffic simulation on the current day incorporates unexpected events on roads including road crashes. Here, a macroscopic block density model was adopted for the dynamic traffic simulation. This model estimates link travel times for 1-min intervals. 2.2. VRPTW-F model This section describes the mathematical model of the VRPTW-F that was introduced in the previous section. The model minimises the total cost of distributing or collecting goods with truck capacity and designated time constraints. The total cost is composed of three components; (a) fixed vehicle costs, (b) vehicle operating costs that are proportional to the time travelled and spent waiting at customers, and (c) early arrival or delay penalties for designated pickup/delivery times at customers.