  The paper presents an efficient Hybrid Genetic Search with Advanced Diversity Control for a large class of time-constrained vehicle routing problems, introducing several new features to manage the temporal dimension. New move evaluation techniques are proposed, accounting for penalized infeasible solutions with respect to time-window and duration constraints, and allowing to evaluate moves from any classical neighbourhood based on arc or node exchanges in amortized constant time. Furthermore, geometric and structural problem decompositions are developed to address efficiently large problems. The proposed algorithm outperforms all current state-of-the-art approaches on classical literature benchmark instances for any combination of periodic, multi-depot, site-dependent, and duration-constrained vehicle routing problem with time windows. Keywords Vehicle routing problems ; Time windows ; Hybrid genetic algorithm ; Diversity management ; Neighbourhood search ; Decomposition 1. Introduction Vehicle routing problems (VRP) with time constraints and requirements relative to customer assignments to vehicle types, depots, or planning periods constitute a class of difficult optimization problems. These settings are linked with numerous practical applications including logistics, goods transportation, refuse collection, maintenance operations, and relief supply (see [1] for a large variety of application cases). Much has already been dedicated to specific VRP with additional “attributes” such as time windows, multiple depots, or delivery-period choices. As illustrated by numerous reviews ( [2] , [3] , [4] , [5]  and  [6] , for the most recent), almost every prominent meta-heuristic paradigm, including evolutionary methods, ant colony optimization, tabu search, simulated annealing, other improved local search approaches or ruin-and-recreate, has been applied to at least one of the previous settings. Yet, besides highly problem-tailored methods, the literature critically lacks good generalist approaches able to efficiently address a wide range of problem variants, and VRP combining several problem attributes, also called multi-attribute VRP in Crainic et al. [7] and rich VRP in Hartl et al. [8] , still constitute major challenges for both research and applications. Within these settings, it is well known that imposing time-window constraints on customer services (and depot availability) raises significant challenges related to the smaller proportion of feasible solutions, the increased computation burden required to evaluate moves in neighbourhood search, and the antagonist influence of temporal and spatial characteristics. This paper introduces a new Hybrid Genetic Search with Advanced Diversity Control ( HGSADC ), which addresses some of these challenges. In particular, it addresses efficiently a wide range of large-scale vehicle routing problems with time windows ( VRPTW ), route-duration constraints, and additional attributes involving requirements for customer assignments to particular vehicles types, depots or planning periods. The main characteristic of HGSADC stands in a different approach to population diversity management, the contribution of a particular individual to the diversity of the population appearing as a proper objective to be optimized [9] . We also introduce a number of new algorithmic features targeting specifically the temporal characteristics of the problems. We thus propose simple move evaluation procedures that accommodate penalized infeasibility with regard to duration and time-window constraints, and work in amortized O(1) O ( 1 ) for any neighbourhood based on a bounded number of arc exchanges or node relocations. We also develop neighbourhood pruning procedures based on the temporal dimension, and decomposition principles to address efficiently large problem instances involving up to 1000 customers and 4500 services. The resulting algorithm is simple and efficient, outperforming all existing approaches on classical benchmarks for the VRPTW, its variants with multiple depots ( MDVRPTW ), multiple periods ( PVRPTW ), and vehicle-site dependencies ( SDVRPTW ). The main contributions of this paper are thus (1) a generalization of the concept of HGSADC to a large class of VRPTW variants presenting mixed temporal and geometrical characteristics; (2) new procedures to efficiently search neighbourhoods when considering infeasible solutions with regards to duration and time-window constraints; (3) decomposition principles within the genetic framework allowing to address efficiently large instances; and (4) a state-of-the-art meta-heuristic for four classes of vehicle routing problems with time windows. The remainder of this paper is organized as follows: Section 2 states the notation and formally defines the problems. Summarized elements of the literature are presented in Section 3 . The proposed meta-heuristic is described in Section 4 , while extensive computational experiments are reported in Section 5 . Section 6 concludes. 2. Problem statement We first formally state the VRPTW. A general PVRPTW is then defined, including other notable variants, such as the MDVRPTW and the SDVRPTW, as special cases. Route-duration constraints are included in all cases but do not appear in the acronyms.