Password: The behavior of the parameters of 10 heuristics for the vehicle routing problem (VRP) with side-constraints is analysed. Statistical analysis techniques are used to determine the significant effect of the heuristic parameters on the solution value. All analyses are performed on a huge test set containing 420 problems with specific geographical characteristics and including a variety of vehicle-related, customer-related and time-related constraints. A classification of the heuristic parameters is presented as a result of the analyses. The findings can be considered as a basis for the conception of automated systems capable of providing support in selecting an appropriate heuristic and its parameter value combinations for a VRP. Keywords Routing ; Heuristic ; Computational analysis ; Parametric analysis 1. Introduction The standard vehicle routing problem (VRP) can be defined as one of finding a set of routes for a fleet of vehicles, which have to service a number of stops | N | from a depot, denoted by stop 0. It is assumed that every vehicle has the same capacity Q and that the number of vehicles is unlimited. The vehicles depart from and arrive at the depot. The demand quantity q i at each stop i is known in advance. No single demand quantity exceeds vehicle capacity. The VRP was first formulated by Dantzig and Ramser (1959) . Besides vehicle capacity other side-constraints can be included in the VRP, such as maximum travel distance and/or travel time, time-windows at the stops and mixed pick-up and delivery. The VRP with or without side-constraints is an -hard problem ( Lenstra and Rinnooy Kan, 1981 ). This property makes it difficult to solve the VRP to optimality. Exact algorithms have been used to solve problems of up to 50 stops in a reasonable amount of computing time. For problems of larger size, heuristics are more appropriate. Basically, VRP-heuristics belong to two categories: initial and improvement heuristics. Initial heuristics generate a feasible solution for the VRP, given the data on customers, depot and side-constraints. Ten heuristics of this category are involved in this research. They are described in detail in Section 3 . Improvement heuristics are assumed to enhance a feasible solution, generated by means of an initial heuristic, through moving customers between routes. Van Breedam (2001) demonstrates that the quality of the initial solution is significant for the quality of the final solution of improvement heuristics. This holds for traditional descent heuristics, but also for meta-heuristics (Tabu search, simulated annealing, genetic algorithms, …), in particular when computation time is restricted. The rationale behind the research presented here is that in a commercial environment, where only limited computation time is available, the importance of a good initial solution remains a real issue. This article reports on the results of a parametric analysis, which is aimed at the evaluation of the effect of each parameter of a heuristic and its interaction effect with the other parameters of the heuristic on the final solution value. These effects can be measured on their significance by means of the automatic interaction detection (AID) technique. Section 2 describes the applicability of AID for the parametric analysis. The experiments are performed on a test set of 420 problems. These problems have been generated to meet all rigorous requirements of this research. Section 4 describes the conception of and the rationale behind these problems and their specifications. The analysis of the results of almost 500,000 experiments has given rise to a classification of all heuristic parameters into three main groups, which are described in Section 5 . The huge amount of output resulting from the statistical analyses does not allow a reproduction of the raw results in this article. Hence, only summarizing results are reported here. For more extensive data, the reader is referred to Van Breedam (1994) . We are not aware of any publications on statistical parametric analyses with AID for VRP-heuristics. The parametric analysis of Solomon (1987) , which includes time-oriented nearest neighbor, savings and insertion heuristics was not primarily based on statistical procedures. Furthermore, Benyahia and Potvin (1995) used genetic algorithms to generate the best parameter value combinations for the sequential and parallel insertion heuristic. This research can be considered as a first step towards the conception of diagnostic systems capable of providing decision support in selecting the right VRP heuristic with its most appropriate parameter values in order to solve a VRP with some specific characteristics. Other conclusions and guidelines for further research are given in the final section. 2. Statistical analysis The main objective of the research is to gain insight into the behavior of the parameters of a set of heuristics for a variety of problem instances. Moreover, we are interested in detecting groups of parameters among the heuristics which demonstrate a comparable behavior under analogous planning conditions. In order to meet these objectives, AID turned out to be the appropriate statistical analysis technique. The AID technique has been conceived by Morgan and Sonquist (1963) and further refined by Sonquist et al. (1971) . The technique is aimed at discovering the structure of the relation between variables. The input of AID-analysis contains all solutions to a planning problem obtained by combining all values of the parameters of a heuristic (see Section 3 ). The solution value of a problem is expressed as the total travel time of the solution. AID requires a continuous dependent variable, the total travel time, and nominally scaled independent variables. However, not all the heuristic parameters have a nominal measurement scale. Some parameters have a nominal scale by nature. This is the case, for example, with a parameter representing the initialization criterion of a sequential route-building heuristic. The two values for the parameter represent the initialization of a route with the stop either farthest from the depot or closest to the depot. A transformation procedure is required for parameters whose measurement scale is of the interval type. An example is given by a parameter representing the continuous weights of a criterion. In order to convert such a parameter to a nominal scale, first the criterion is transformed to obtain continuous weights summing at 1. Assume, for example, the savings criterion, originally stated as At first, this expression is transformed into The combinations of the continuous weights α 1 and α 2 can be represented by a single meta-parameter. As an example, the five combinations of values for α 1 and α 2 are categorized in a meta-parameter A . An AID solution can be represented by a tree structure containing all binary splits. At each phase, an analysis of variance is performed on each two groups of values of the same variable. The split with the highest significant F -value among the analyses of variance is selected. The splitting process is halted if no more binary split with a significant F -value can be found. Fig. 1 contains an example of a solution of an AID analysis. Assume a heuristic with three parameters A , B and C . The symbol “*” refers to the path of the best solution. So, the significantly better values of each parameter are: A =1; B =1,3; C =2,3. Fig. 1. 