This paper describes the authors’ research on various heuristics in solving vehicle routing problem with time window constraints (VRPTW) to near optimal solutions. VRPTW is NP-hard problem and best solved to near optimum by heuristics. In the vehicle routing problem, a set of geographically dispersed customers with known demands and predefined time windows are to be served by a fleet of vehicles with limited capacity. The optimized routines for each vehicle are scheduled as to achieve the minimal total cost without violating the capacity and time window constraints. In this paper, we explore different hybridizations of artificial intelligence based techniques including simulated annealing, tabu search and genetic algorithm for better performance in VRPTW. All the implemented hybrid heuristics are applied to solve the Solomon's 56 VRPTW with 100-customer instances, and yield 23 solutions competitive to the best solutions published in literature according to the authors’ best knowledge. Keywords Artificial intelligence ; Vehicle routing problems with time windows ; Simulated annealing ; Tabu search ; Genetic algorithms 1. Introduction The vehicle routing problem with time window constraints (VRPTW) arises in a wide range of practical decision making problems, such as school bus routing, mail, newspaper delivery, fuel oil delivery and municipal waste collection. The VRPTW problem addressed in this paper belongs to the operational level in logistical decisions as classified by Hax and Candea (1984) , which involves routing a fleet of vehicles, with limited capacities, from a central depot to a set of geographically dispersed customers with known demands and predefined time window constraints. The route cost of a vehicle is the total distance it travels, and the objective is to minimize the total cost of all routes with minimum number of vehicles without violating any constraints. Efficient routing and scheduling of vehicles can save millions of dollars for government and industries. Surveys on classifications and applications of VRPTW can be found in Osman (1993a) , Laporte (1992) , Fisher (1993) and Bodin et al. (1983) . It has been shown previously that finding a feasible solution for the traveling salesman problem (TSP), the simplest problem in vehicle routing, is an NP-complete problem. Therefore, solving the problem of VRPTW is more complicated since it involves serving many customers using multiple vehicles. Although optimal solutions to VRPTW can be obtained using exact methods, the computational time required to solve the VRPTW to optimality is prohibitive ( Desrochers et al., 1992 ). Since heuristic methods often produce near optimal solutions in a reasonable amount of computational time, there are many researches currently working on the design of new heuristics for solving the VRPTW. A great amount of work has been done to the development of heuristics for VRPTW. For example, Christofides (1985) , Fisher (1995) , Federgruen and Simchi-Levi (1995) , Bertsimas and Simichi-Levi (1996) , Kontoravdis and Bard (1994) , Kohl and Madsen (1997) , Kohl et al. (1999) , Thompson and Psaraftis (1993) or Kolen et al. (1987) . These heuristics can be classified into four categories by Christofides's definition: Constructive methods, route first-cluster second method, cluster first-route second methods and incomplete optimization methods. The saving algorithm (1964), heuristics of Gaskel (1967) , Yellow (1970) and Russel (1977) fall into the class of the constructive methods. The optimal partitioning heuristic ( Beasley, 1983 ) and the sweep algorithm ( Gillett and Miller, 1974 ) belong to the class of route first-cluster second methods. There are three algorithms for the cluster first-route second methods, which includes the two-phase method ( Christofides et al., 1978 ), the generalized assignment heuristic ( Fisher and Jaikumar, 1981 ) and the location-based heuristic ( Bramel and Simchi-Levi, 1995 ). For the last category, it includes the method of cutting plane methods ( Cornuéjols and Harche, 1993 ) and minimum K-tree methods ( Fisher, 1994 ). All the above algorithms are capable of giving feasible solutions for VRPTW, but the solutions produced may not be satisfactory because of their limited ability of searching the solution space. Heuristics search strategies based on genetic algorithm (GA), simulated annealing (SA) and tabu search (TS) (artificial intelligence (AI) based algorithms) have been explored in recent years in order to improve the solutions in VRPTW, e.g., the works of Garcia et al. (1994) , Potvin and Bengio (1996) on TS, Thangiah and Petrovic (1998) , Thangiah et al. (1996) on GA and Thangiah (1999) on hybrid algorithms. All these AI-based algorithms can help to obtain better solutions for VRPTW by exploring much larger solution space. The work of Osman (1993b) in using SA and TS for VRPTW show that customer interchange methods guided by SA and TS produce solutions that are significantly better than solutions obtained by competing heuristic methods. Heuristic search strategies based on GA ( Thangiah and Nygard, 1992 ; Thangiah et al., 1993 ) were also proved to give good solutions for VRPTW. In this paper, we investigate the use of customer interchange method to improve solutions using local search algorithm as well as hybrid SA and TS. Hybrid GA and local search method is also proposed in the paper to solve the representation problem in standard GA. For all these heuristics, the initial solution of VRPTW is obtained from push forward insertion heuristic (PFIH), which is a straightforward and constructive algorithm to obtain initial solutions ( Solomon, 1987 ). The paper is arranged as follows: Section 2 gives a mathematical formulation of the VRPTW. Section 3 introduces the PFIH, λ -interchange local search method, and local search with diversification. Section 4 describes the hybridization of TS and SA heuristics for VRPTW. Hybrid GA with local search technique is presented in Section 5 . The overall computational results are listed and described in Section 6 . Conclusions and future works are drawn in Section 7 . 2. Mathematical formulation This section describes the notation and features that are common throughout the paper. Our formulation is based on the VRPTW model as shown in Fig. 1 . Fig. 1.  The VRPTW consists of a set of identical vehicles, a central depot node, a set of customer nodes and a network connecting the depot and customers. It is assumed that there are N +1 customers, C ∈{0,1,2,…, N } and K vehicles, V ∈{1,2,…, K }. Conveniently, the depot node is denoted as customer 0. Each arc in the network represents a connection between two nodes and also indicating the direction it travels. Each route starts from depot, visits customer nodes and then returns to depot. The number of routes in the network is equal to the number of vehicles used. One vehicle is dedicated to one route. A cost c ij and a travel time t ij are associated with each arc of the network.