Password: The period vehicle routing problem is a multilevel problem assembling two classical problems: the assignment problem and the vehicle routing problem. Collection days have to be assigned to each customer and vehicle routes have to be designed for each day of the period (time horizon) so that the total distribution cost is minimised. The interaction between the temporal and spatial aspects turns the problem into one of the most challenging variations of vehicle routing. In this paper, we present the study of a real period vehicle routing system: the collection of recycling paper containers in the City Council of Almada, Portugal. Keywords Routing ; Period vehicle routing ; Heuristic ; Assignment 1. Introduction A vehicle routing problem involves determining for each vehicle, which of the customers will be visited and what route will be followed so that the total collection/delivery cost is minimised. In a period vehicle routing problem, a new question is raised: within the period (time horizon) considered, when will be each customer visited so that required service levels, such a given number of visits, are met. Obviously, the assignment of collection/delivery days to customers constrains the design of efficient daily routes and cannot be considered separately of the routing component. Accordingly, exact solution methods can only be applied in problems of a trivial size, turning heuristic methods the most commonly adopted. In the collection system of recycling paper containers of Almada, containers' collection days and vehicle routes have to be established for 59 containers and two vehicles within a one-month period. The routing decisions involved are mainly the same that those addressed in a period vehicle routing, but some new features have to be considered. The most important one is that the frequency of visits to containers cannot be established a priori (the volume of paper to be collected at each point is a random variable). The number of visits within the period must therefore be included in the model as a decision variable. Some other aspects of this particular problem are the objective of profit maximisation (revenue from selling the collected paper minus operating costs), the anti-symmetry of the distance matrix (due to the location of some containers in urban environment) and the periodicity of containers' collections (visits were assumed to always occur at the same combination of days of the week). For the solution procedure adopted, we present an extension of the heuristic algorithm proposed by Christofides and Beasley [6] for the period vehicle routing problem. As before, the method is based on an initial choice of containers' collection-frequency followed by collecting-day combination interchanges in an attempt to increase the total profit. It should be noted that, in their approach, the authors replace the daily vehicle routing by a travelling salesman problem and, once the TSP solution was obtained, “for tightly constrained VRP's routes were also constructed manually” ( [17, p. 502] ). On the other hand, the algorithm presented here gives the VRP solution for each day of the period. This paper is arranged as follows. Section 2 presents the description and formulation of the Almada paper containers problem. In Section 3 we provide a brief review of the solution procedures for the PVRP. Section 4 describes the heuristic algorithm applied and Section 5 provides the computational results. Section 6 summarises the most important findings. 2. Almada's recycling paper containers problem In the collection system of Almada's recycling paper containers, routes and visit frequencies have to be established for the 59 containers located in different sites of the Municipality (each container corresponding to one site). A single vehicle is used and, due to the staff's lunch break which splits the 8-hour working day into two equal halves, two different tours can be operated for each collecting day: one in the morning and one in the afternoon. The problem can thus be viewed as a vehicle routing problem with two vehicles, where as usual, routes must respect time and capacity constraints: each tour must last less than 4 hours and the vehicle capacity (12 full containers) must not be exceeded. For each container, the average daily filling rate (AFR) was estimated using historical data collected between April 1993 and September 1994 [2] . The period considered is a one-month period, a 4-week month, due to the fact that some containers take nearly one month to be filled. Visits to customers were assumed to follow a given pattern over the period, more precisely to be periodic. For example, if a customer has to be visited twice a week (a 5-day week), then visits should always occur at the same combination of days of the week: Monday–Thursday, Monday–Wednesday or Tuesday–Wednesday. Note here that the main advantages of considering periodic collections are driver familiarity with scheduled routes and population familiarity with scheduled container collections. A set of 38 different patterns was defined as twice and once a week visits, as well by visits occurring three times, two times and once a month, provided that time between successive visits would be at least 2 days. This restriction is explained by the fact that in order to avoid earlier visits which increase long term costs, we only considered patterns for which the containers would be at least at 50% of its capacity on any collection day. Since for the data in stake, the best average filling rate is nearly 25% (see [19] ), such constraint lead to restrain time between successive visits to be at least 2 days. The problem can then be stated as follows: