Password: The livestock collection problem (LCP) is a rich vehicle routing problem (VRP) extended with inventory constraints. The LCP is a complex planning problem taken from the meat industry, and the goal is to construct a set of vehicle routes to collect animals from farms for slaughter at a slaughterhouse. Several constraints dealing with animal welfare are added, some of these lead to a loading problem where the vehicle capacity depends on the loading sequence. In addition, global constraints to handle production and inventory at the slaughterhouse are needed. This paper presents an exact solution method for the LCP, based on column generation, that solves much larger instances to optimality than what has been done before. The algorithm presented here also solves a richer model that is closer to the underlying real-world problem than previously published work on exact methods for this problem is based on. Keywords Vehicle routing and inventory problem ; Rich VRP ; VRP with inventory constraints ; Column generation 1. Introduction Since 2003, Molde University College has been working together with the Norwegian meat industry to improve planning of transportation of live animals to slaughterhouses. The project focuses on transportation costs as well as animal welfare and meat quality, and several models and solution methods for the LCP have been developed, see [8] , [11] , [12]  and  [13] . The livestock collection problem is a rich, real-world, vehicle routing problem (VRP), extended with inventory constraints. There exists a large body of research where the VRP is combined with other logistic problems, such as location routing [16] and inventory routing [1] . While location routing combines vehicle routing with facility location, the location of the slaughterhouse is already decided in the LCP. Instead, the inventory part of the LCP adds a timing aspect to the problem, and thus one has to consider both when the routes arrive at the slaughterhouse as well as what they bring into the inventory. In the inventory routing problem, on the other hand, one has to decide both what customers to serve, how much to bring to each of them and how to do the routing. In the LCP, the orders are viewed as data, meaning that one knows both where to go and what to collect. Logistic problems based on the VRP are known to be hard to solve, and it is not likely that LCP instances of realistic size can be solved to optimality in the near future. Extending a basic VRP model to mirror this real-world problem fairly close results in a huge model with a very high number of variables and constraints, as shown in [13] . Exact methods cannot handle this very well except for very small problem instances. Heuristic solution methods, on the other hand, can often find better route plans than today's manual planning systems for larger problems, see [12] . In this paper, we explore some of the possibilities and limitations for finding optimal solutions to LCP instances with less than 30 orders. To the best of our knowledge, the results reported in Gribkovskaia et al. [8] represent the current best results in terms of optimal solutions to this problem. Column generation approaches have been very successful in the search for optimal solutions to routing and scheduling problems, see, e.g. [3]  and  [7] , and many of the constraints that cause serious problems to other exact methods can be handled quite efficiently in subproblems, and thus that technique is applied here. The rest of the paper is divided as follows. In Section 2 , a description of the livestock collection problem is given. This is followed by a mathematical model of the LCP in Section 3 . The solution method and the computational experiments are described in 4  and  5 , respectively. The paper is closed with conclusions and suggestions for further research in Section 6 . 2. The livestock collection problem Our version of the LCP is based on the vehicle routing problem (VRP), which is a well known and extensively studied optimization problem that deals with the allocation of transportation tasks to a fleet of vehicles, and the simultaneous routing for each vehicle. The VRP was first described by Dantzig and Ramser [2] , and is a computationally hard problem with high industrial relevance. The classical VRP is defined on a graph G=(N,A) G = ( N , A ) where N={0,…,n} N = { 0 , … , n } is the vertex set and A={(i,j):i,j∈N} A = { ( i , j ) : i , j ∈ N } is the arc set. Vertex 0 is the depot; the other vertices are the customers. The travel cost between customer i and j   is defined by c ij >0 c ij > 0 and d i d i is the demand for customer i . The vehicles are usually identical, each with a capacity q . The goal is then to design a least cost set of routes, all starting and ending at the depot, where each customer is visited exactly once. The total demand of all customers on a route must not exceed the vehicle capacity q . This classical description is often referred to as the capacitated VRP or CVRP. 2.1. Extensions to the capacitated VRP Constraints are added to the basic model, resulting in rich VRP models that mirror important details of the real world. See Toth and Vigo [15] for an overview of extensions to the VRP. In the following, the extensions added to the basic VRP model to arrive at our version of the LCP are described. The term trip is used to refer to a single tour/route that starts from the driver's home or from the slaughterhouse, and ends at the slaughterhouse, and the term duty refers to all trips performed by one vehicle on one day. 2.1.1. Trip duration There are no explicit restrictions on the trip length, but there are restrictions on the duration that in practice also limit the trip length. The so-called “eight-hours rule” states that no trips can be planned to allow animals to stay on the vehicle for more than 8 h. In addition, all trips must return to the slaughterhouse by a certain hour in the afternoon. When trip duration is computed, one has to add time needed for loading animals at each farm to the travel time between stops. This loading time varies quite much, but reasonable estimates have been found by using a fixed time per stop plus time for loading each animal, depending on the animal type. The time spent at each farm thus depends on the type and number of animals picked up. 2.1.2. Animal types and categories Transportation of live animals is governed by rules to ensure animal welfare, and the animals are divided into types and categories . The types are by and large the different animal species; these are further divided into categories mainly by age/size and gender. Mixing of different animal types in the same compartment of a vehicle is not allowed. The different animal types and categories require different amounts of floor space and height in the vehicle during transport. For the time being, 16 different animal categories that belong to three different animal types are considered. 2.1.3. Heterogeneous vehicle fleet The vehicle fleet is heterogeneous, as the vehicle capacities are slightly different. This implies that one has to keep track of which vehicle is used on which trip. 2.1.4. Multiple trips Each vehicle may be used for up to four trips each day, but while the first trip starts from the driver's home, the subsequent trips start from the slaughterhouse. All trips end at the slaughterhouse. In addition, time is added between consecutive trips to allow for the vehicle to be unloaded and cleaned. In the following, trips that start from the driver's home are referred to as home trips and trips that start from the slaughterhouse as depot trips . A duty thus consists of exactly one home trip followed by zero or up to three depot trips.