  In this paper, we present an efficient variable neighborhood search heuristic for the capacitated vehicle routing problem. The objective is to design least cost routes for a fleet of identically capacitated vehicles to service geographically scattered customers with known demands. The variable neighborhood search procedure is used to guide a set of standard improvement heuristics. In addition, a strategy reminiscent of the guided local search metaheuristic is used to help escape local minima. The developed solution method is specifically aimed at solving very large scale real-life vehicle routing problems. To speed up the method and cut down memory usage, new implementation concepts are used. Computational experiments on 32 existing large scale benchmarks, as well as on 20 new very large scale problem instances, demonstrate that the proposed method is fast, competitive and able to find high-quality solutions for problem instances with up to 20,000 customers within reasonable CPU times. Keywords Vehicle routing ; Heuristics ; Variable neighborhood search ; Guided local search ; Large scale problems 1. Introduction Efficient distribution of goods is of paramount importance, not only for the survival of many logistic service providers, but ultimately for the competitiveness of a region's economy by lowering the cost of goods to consumers. Cost savings can be achieved, in particular, through the use of high quality routes and schedules for the fleet of vehicles that performs distribution tasks. The vehicle routing problem (VRP), introduced by Dantzig and Ramser [1] , holds a central place with regards to the determination of efficient routes in distribution management. Consequently, it has become one of the most widely studied problems in combinatorial optimization. The classical VRP can be formally defined as follows. Let G=(V,E) G = ( V , E ) be a connected digraph where V   is a set of n+1 n + 1 nodes and E a set of arcs with non-negative weights and associated travel times. One of the nodes represents a depot where the fleet of vehicles is based. With each node i , apart from the depot, is associated a demand q   i i that can be a delivery from or a pickup to the depot. The problem consists in determining a set of routes starting and ending at the depot such that the total distance traveled is minimized, while the cumulative demand of the customers serviced by any route t   , ∑ i ∈ t q i , does not exceed the vehicle capacity Q   and its duration D t D t does not exceed a preset upper limit L . All problem parameters are assumed to be known with certainty. Moreover, each customer must be served by exactly one vehicle, thus prohibiting split service and multiple visits. The VRP is a NP-hard problem [2] . This property makes it difficult to solve the VRP to optimality. Exact algorithms have been used to solve problems with up to 50 customers in a reasonable computing time. For more information on exact solution approaches for the VRP, we refer the reader to the surveys of Toth and Vigo [3] , Naddef and Rinaldi [4] , and Bramel and Simchi-Levi [5] . For larger problems, heuristics are more appropriate. Basically, VRP heuristics can be divided into three categories: construction heuristics, improvement heuristics and metaheuristics. Construction heuristics generate feasible solutions by performing sequences of simple operations that minimize or maximize a given criterion. This class of methods includes the well-known savings heuristic of Clarke and Wright [6] that proceeds by merging two routes into a single route according to the savings obtained by this merger. Other well-known examples of construction heuristics are the sweep algorithm of Gillett and Miller [7] , the insertion heuristic of Christofides et al. [8] , the improved savings heuristic of Paessens [9] and the petal algorithm of Renaud et al. [10] . More details can be found in the survey papers of Laporte et al. [11] , Laporte and Semet [12] , and Van Breedam [13] , which presents a parametric analysis of a number of construction heuristics. Improvement heuristics seek to iteratively enhance a feasible solution (usually generated by a construction heuristic) through locally replacing a set of arcs or customer nodes. These local operations are performed as long as they produce improvements in the value of the objective function. These methods thus typically yield solutions that are local optima, with respect to the set of solution modifications considered. For more information, we refer the reader to Lin [14] , Or [15] , Thompson and Psaraftis [16] , Van Breedam [17] , Kindervater and Savelsbergh [18] , Ergun et al. [19] , and the surveys by Laporte et al. [11] and Laporte and Semet [12] .