Password: This paper presents a parallel tabu search algorithm that utilizes several different neighborhood structures for solving the capacitated vehicle routing problem. Single neighborhood or neighborhood combinations are encapsulated in tabu search threads and they cooperate through a solution pool for the purpose of exploiting their joint power. The computational experiments on 32 large scale benchmark instances show that the proposed method is highly effective and competitive, providing new best solutions to four instances while the average deviation of all best solutions found from the collective best results reported in the literature is about 0.22%. We are also able to associate the beneficial use of special neighborhoods with some test instance characteristics and uncover some sources of the collective power of multi-neighborhood cooperation. ► Development of an effective parallel multi-neighborhood tabu search. ► Evaluation of performance associated with using particular neighbourhoods given instance characteristics. ► Obtaining competitive results and a number of new best-known solutions. Keywords Routing ; Parallel metaheuristics ; Multi-neighborhood ; Cooperative search ; Solution pool 1. Introduction The vehicle routing problem ( VRP ) describes the allocation of transportation tasks to a fleet of vehicles, and the simultaneous routing of each vehicle. The VRP was first described by Dantzig and Ramser (1959) , and has been proved NP-hard by Lenstra and Kan (1981) . Due to its high industrial applicability and complexity, the VRP has been the object of numerous studies and a great number of papers have proposed solution methods. These methods comprise both exact and heuristic algorithms. Since the VRP is NP-hard, it is not always possible to solve instances to optimality within limited computing time. Exact algorithms have been used to solve the VRP instances with up to about 100 customers ( Laporte, 2007 ). For larger problems, heuristics and metaheuristics are more appropriate, especially tabu search ( TS ) ( Glover and Laguna, 1997 ), which has often been used successfully. For more information on the VRP, its solution methods and the recent work, we refer to the books of Toth and Vigo, 2002  and  Golden et al., 2008 and the survey paper of Laporte (2007) . Among the solution methods for solving the VRP, one trend is to adopt parallel algorithms. For instance, parallel algorithms are increasingly applied in real time vehicle routing contexts, where solutions have to be timely generated ( Ghiani et al., 2003 ). Unlike sequential algorithms which run on a single processor and are executed sequentially, parallel algorithms run multiple processes simultaneously on available processors with the common goal of solving a given problem instance. Crainic (2008) describes the main strategies used on this group of algorithms and also provides an up-to-date survey of contributions to this rapidly evolving field. The author also points out that parallel algorithms can both speed up the search and improve the robustness and the quality of the solutions attained. Thus it would be advantageous to make use of parallelism. Another feature of the latest metaheuristics for the VRP is to use multiple neighborhoods (e.g., Li et al., 2005 , Kytöjoki et al., 2007 , Mester and Bräysy, 2007  and  Groër et al., 2011 ). From the outcome of these algorithms, one may perceive that it is beneficial to employ multiple neighborhoods. Indeed, each neighborhood can be used to improve or modify a solution in its particular way such as reinserting a node, swapping two nodes and so forth. For a particular instance, at a certain stage, a specific neighborhood may be more effective than the others by leading the search through its own distinct search trajectory and producing better solutions. We term such a capability of a neighborhood as its effectiveness. Moreover, it is also noticeable that in these methods multiple neighborhoods are used in serial manner, in that each neighborhood is used one after another following a fixed or randomized sequence. One may wonder whether it can be more effective to use multiple neighborhoods in a parallel way instead. The objective of this paper is to explore the strategy of utilizing multiple neighborhoods in a parallel setting and analyze their effectiveness for solving the capacitated vehicle routing problem ( CVRP ). The CVRP, as the classical version of the VRP, is defined on a graph G=(N,A) G = ( N , A ) , where N={0,…,n} N = { 0 , … , n } is a vertex set and A={(i,j):i,j∈N} A = { ( i , j ) : i , j ∈ N } is an arc set. Vertex 0 is the depot, where the vehicles depart from and return to. The other vertices are the customers which have a certain demand d to be delivered (or picked up). The travel cost between customer i and j   is defined by c ij >0 c ij > 0 . The vehicles are identical. Each vehicle has a capacity of Q . The objective is to design a least cost set of routes, all starting and ending at the depot. Each customer is visited exactly once. The total demand of all customers on a route must be within the vehicle capacity Q . Some CVRP instances may have an additional route duration limit constraint, restricting the duration (or length) of any route not to exceed a preset bound D . The method presented in this paper is able to solve problems both without and with route duration limit constraint. The main contribution of this paper is the development of an effective parallel multi-neighborhood tabu search ( PMNTS ) method which contains several cooperative TS threads, each using a single neighborhood or a neighborhood combination. The experiments on 32 large scale CVRP benchmarks demonstrate that the proposed algorithm is effective and competitive. It finds new best solutions for four instances while the rest of the results are highly comparable to the best solutions reported in the literature. In addition, we are also able to associate the beneficial use of special neighborhoods with some test instance characteristics and uncover some origins of the collective power of multi-neighborhood cooperation. The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. In the next section our problem solving methodology is introduced. After that, Section 3 describes several variants developed for analyzing the performance of the proposed method. Then Section 4 presents the algorithm configurations and the computational results. Finally, conclusions are presented in Section 5 . 2. Description of the parallel algorithm In this section, the proposed parallel multi-neighborhood cooperative tabu search metaheuristic is introduced. We start with a general description of the algorithm, and then the description of the main search phase is provided in Section 2.1 . After that, Section 2.2 introduces the cooperating TS threads. Then the initial solution phase is described in Section 2.3 .