  Most agricultural field operations involve a number of highly interconnected tasks executed by co-operating heterogeneous agricultural machines. Multiple machinery systems involved in “output material flow” operations, such as harvesting, as well as in “input material flow” operations, such as spraying and fertilising, include a number of primary units (PUs) supported by a number of service (mainly transport) units (SUs). Such operations require considerable efforts in terms of the managerial tasks of scheduling and planning. Here, a theoretical approach is presented to represent the planning and scheduling tasks for the SUs as examples of the well-known combinatorial optimisation problem “vehicle routing problem with time windows” (VRPTW). The approach builds on the concept that in the case of field operations involving co-operating machines, an SU, or a team of SUs, is required fulfil a request for on-site services from PUs, where the requests are generated by a spatial–temporal process which may be deterministic ( e.g. , seeding), stochastic ( e.g. , harvesting) or dynamic ( e.g. , sensor-based site-specific spraying). According to this concept, the PU can be considered as the “customers” in the vehicle routing problem methodology. It has been shown that scheduling and planning problems for SUs in conventional machinery systems, as well as in emerging field robot systems, can be cast as examples of the VRPTW and, consequently, can be solved using advanced methods that have developed for the solution of these examples. Nomenclature at i k the adjusted time needed for the starting of the service procedure between the s k SU and the p i PU or f i FU a i the starting time of the time window wherein customer i  ∈  N has to be served b i the ending time f the time window wherein customer i  ∈  N has to be served E the set of arcs (edges) of the graph G : E  =  N  ×  N ɛ i k the service times associated with each node in the case of the time windows presence ( i∈P∧F,k∈S i ∈ P ∧ F , k ∈ S ) C index the capacity of a mobile unit: index≡i∈V i n d e x ≡ i ∈ V , in general the capacity of a vehicle as in VRP, index≡p k ,k∈P i n d e x ≡ p k , k ∈ P , capacity of a PU, index≡s k ,k∈S i n d e x ≡ s k , k ∈ S , capacity of a SU c ij the cost associated with each arc ( i , j ) ∈  E representing the transit cost from i to j d i the non-negative demand that is associated with each customer i  ∈  N F the set of the FU, each referenced to as f k , k  ∈  F G the complete graph G  = { N , E } L the set of the different machine types N the set of nodes in the VRP graph P the set of the PU, each referenced to as p k , k  ∈  P R j the permutation set that includes the ordering of the nodes visited by vehicle v j , j  ∈  V   according to the VRP solution, R j =〈i 1 ,i 2 ,…,i |R j | 〉 R j = 〈 i 1 , i 2 , … , i | R j | 〉 S the set of the SU, each referenced to as s k , k  ∈  S SR index the service rate; if index≡p i ,i∈P i n d e x ≡ p i , i ∈ P service rate corresponds to the unloading rate of the harvester's auger, if index≡s i ,i∈S i n d e x ≡ s i , i ∈ S service rate corresponds to the refilling rate of the SU in the material input operation type, if index≡f i ,i∈F i n d e x ≡ f i , i ∈ F service time corresponds to the refilling or unloading rate (depending on the operation type) of the facility's equipment sc k the number of the service calls expected by PU p k t ij the travel time associated with each arc ( i , j ) ∈  E V the set of the vehicles available at the depot, each referenced to as v k , k  ∈  V γ the penalty cost added when latest time of a time window is violated τ ij controlled traffic farming DVRPTW dynamic vehicle routing problem with time windows IMF input material flow FCFS first-come first-served (queuing system rule) FU facility unit GIS geographical information system MDVRPTW multiple depot vehicle routing problem with time windows mod TSP modified travelling salesman problem (strategy) OMF output material flow PU primary unit SU service unit SVRPTW un-controlled traffic farming VRP vehicle routing problem VRPTW vehicle routing problem with time windows VRPTWSD vehicle routing problem with time windows and stochastic demands 1. Introduction Most of the agricultural field operations (AFOs) involve a number of highly interconnected tasks executed by co-operating heterogeneous agricultural machines. For example, this is the case for operations that take place within the biomass supply chain such as harvesting, material handling, removal of biomass from the field, and rural and public road transportation. This machinery system includes, between each pair of successive stages in the chain, a number of heterogeneous machines, e.g. , harvesters, transport units, medium and high-capacity transport trucks, and unloading and pre-processing equipment. Multiple machinery operations of similar planning complexity as harvesting (“output material flow – OMF”) are operations such as spraying and fertilising (“input material flow – IMF”). These operations also involve multi-machinery systems that potentially include one or a number of self-propelled or tractor-pulled application units and one or more transport units ( Sørensen and Bochtis, 2010 ).