Password: This paper presents an extension of a competitive vehicle routing problem with time windows (VRPTW) to find short routes with the minimum travel cost and maximum sale by providing good services to customers before delivering the products by other rival distributors. In distribution of the products with short life time that customers need special device for keeping them, reaching time to customers influences on the sales amount which the classical VRPs are unable to handle these kinds of assumptions. Hence, a new mathematical model is developed for the proposed problem and for solving the problem, a simulated annealing (SA) approach is used. Then some small test problems are solved by the SA and the results are compared with obtained results from Lingo 8.0. For large-scale problems, the, Solomon's benchmark instances with additional assumption are used. The results show that the proposed SA algorithm can find good solutions in reasonable time. Keywords Vehicle routing problem ; Competitive situation ; Transportation ; Simulated annealing 1. Introduction Transportation has an important role in various domains, such as enterprise, economic and service systems. By this way, researchers are interested in improving the routes, deleting the unnecessary travels and creating the replacement short routes. In addition, many problems, such as traveling salesman problem (TSP), vehicle routing problem (VRP) and the like, are developed by this approach. VRPs include problems where fleet of vehicles presents service from depot to geographically dispersed customers’ set with specific demands so that the cost function of transportation is minimized. The VRP was formulated mathematically by Dantzig and Ramser [1] . Clarke and Wright [2] developed Dantzig and Ramser's approach by using a saving algorithm. Also, a different approach based on the branch-and-bound algorithm was presented by Loporte et al. [3] . Christian et al. [4] solved the capacitated VRP with stochastic demands by a branch-and-price algorithm. Since VRPs are categorized as NP-hard problems [5] that no exact algorithm is used to solve them in large sizes due to high computational cost; thus approximate and heuristic algorithms are used in practice. Thus, many researchers developed heuristics and meta-heuristics, such as local search [6] , minimum K-trees [7] , adaptive memory (AM) [8] , column generation [9] , simulated annealing (SA) [10] , [11]  and  [12] , genetic algorithms (GAs) [12]  and  [13] , tabu search (TS) [13]  and  [14] , ant system [15]  and  [16] . Tavakkoli-Moghaddam et al. developed a mathematical model for the VRP with backhauls by a memetic algorithm [17] . Furthermore, Tavakkoli-Moghaddam et al. [18] presented a linear-integer model of a capacitated VRP with the independent route length in order to minimize the heterogeneous fleet cost and maximize the capacity utilization. This presented model was solved by a hybrid simulated annealing. The vehicle routing problem with time windows (VRPTW) is an extension of the VRP where delivery of goods to each customer should be occurred in the interval [ a i , b i ], in which a i and b i are the earliest and the latest allowable times that the service should be taken place. The VRPTW is divided in two parts, namely VRP with soft time window (VRPSTW) and VRP with hard time window (VRPHTW). The VRPSTW is a relaxation of the VRPHTW, in which the delivery of goods is allowed outside the time windows if a penalty is paid. However in the VRPHTW, the deviation from the time windows constraint is not allowed at all. Early studies of solution methods for the VRPTW can be found in Golden and Assad [19] and Solomon [20] . Ombuki et al. [21] propagated a VRPTW by a Pareto approach, weighted sum and genetic algorithm in such a way the total length and number of the vehicles were minimized. Geiger [22] developed a VRPTW for minimizing the total distance, total deviations from the time window bounds, number of violations, and number of vehicles by a Pareto approach and genetic algorithm. An exhaustive review of the VRPHTW can be found in [23] . Qureshi et al. [24] presented a new column generation based on the exact optimization approach for the VRPSTW. Due to the high complexity level of the VRPTW a tabu search algorithm was proposed by Taillard et al. [25] to solve the VRPSTW. The proposed algorithm minimizes the total traveled distance and total penalty that must be paid for presenting the service delay outside time windows. Furthermore, Tavakkoli-Moghaddam et al. [26] proposed a multi-criteria vehicle routing problem with considering soft time windows and their problem is solved by SA. In addition a comprehensive review of heuristics methods used for solving the VRPHTW and the VRPSTW can be found in [27]  and  [28] . Due to the importance of service times presented by other companies in real world, distribution companies design the routes of fleets with respect to the condition of other competitors for obtaining the maximum sale. This paper proposes a new approach for VRPs, in which the cost of routes is minimized while the amount of sale is concurrently maximized. This approach needs to consider some other parameters, such as competition between distributors, deciding factors of the customers and service time presented by companies for customers where the classical VRP is unable to achieve good solutions for these kinds of assumptions. In this paper, a novel variant of vehicle routing problem with time windows is presented that occurs in a competitive environment. In this situation, it is very important to attend the service time presented to customers in such a way that if the vehicle presents the service to customers later than its rival, it will miss a partial of its sale. Demand of each customer is divided of two parts, the first part ( d idi ), does not depend on time and should be sent to the customer completely, the second part ( d tdi ), is time-dependent and it would be lost if the rival's arrival time is earlier than vehicle's arrival time to the customer. Therefore distributor‘s reaching time to the customers influences on the amount of sales. Since there are no related papers on a competitive approach on the VRP in our best knowledge, in this work a new presented model for the VRP with competitive time windows (VRPCTW) is presented that can be considered as a new class of the VRPTW. Despite of similarities between the classical models of VRPTW with proposed model there are several differences that are described as follows: • In the classical models, arriving to the customer earlier than lower bound of time windows is not desirable whereas in the new model it is desirable. • In the classical models, arriving to the customer at any time in time window bounds has same desirability, but in the proposed model, desirability of arriving time from lower bound to upper bound of time windows decrease. • In the new model, arriving to the customer after upper bound of time windows makes partial of sale miss, but in the classical models total sale is missed or only desirability decrease. It is proven that VRPs belong to the category of NP-hard problems [5] ; therefore the model is solved by simulated annealing (SA) for large-scale problems. For some small cases, the related results of the proposed SA are compared with the results obtained by the Lingo8 software using a branch-and-bound algorithm. The related results show the appropriate efficiency for solving the problem, especially for large sizes. The rest of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 introduces the problem and Section 3 represents the model formulation. The problem-solving methodology is described in Section 4 and the computational results are discussed in Section 5 . Finally, the conclusion is presented in Section 6 . 2. Problem definition In a competitive environment, it is very important to attend the service time presented to customers in such a way that if the vehicle presents the service to customers later than its rival, it will miss a partial of its sale. For this reason, distributing companies define the route of their vehicles based upon other rival companies’ strategies for serving customers. In other words, sometimes in competitive situations considering the competition between vehicles is needed. The competition in distribution of products with a short life cycle is an example, which customers need a special device for keeping them. Therefore reaching time of a distributor to customers influences on the amount of sales. Hence, a model presented in this paper is to find the routing of vehicles in a competitive environment such that it can be considered as a new version of the VRPTW. This problem is proposed under a condition that a competition is between distributors for obtaining more sales and market shares.