Password: This article addresses a vehicle routing problem variant which considers customers to require simultaneous delivery and pick-up service (VRPSPD). The objective of this problem is to determine the optimal set of routes to totally satisfy both the delivery and pick-up demand of the customer population. VRPSPD is an NP-hard combinatorial optimization problem; therefore exact methods are incapable of dealing with large scale VRPSPD instances arising in a wide variety of practical operations. We propose a hybrid solution approach incorporating the rationale of two well-known metaheuristics which have proven to be effective for routing problem variants, namely tabu search and guided local search. The intelligence of the proposed hybrid was designed to achieve a vast exploration of the search space, by escaping from local optima and intensifying at promising solution regions. The performance of our metaheuristic algorithm was tested on benchmark instances involving from 50 to 400 customers. It produced high quality results, improving several best solutions previously reported. Keywords Vehicle routing ; Simultaneous ; Deliveries pick-ups ; Metaheuristics ; Tabu search ; Guided local search In this paper we examine a variant of the standard version of the vehicle routing problem (VRP) ( Cordeau, Laporte, Savelsbergh, & Vigo, 2007 ), in which customers require simultaneous delivery and pick-up services. This problem is referred to as the VRP with simultaneous pick-ups and deliveries (VRPSPD). VRPSPD is often encountered in commercial applications, where except for transporting goods from the distribution point to the customer population, materials must also reversely flow from the customers back to the distribution point. VRPSPD models the following distribution system: Let G  = ( V ,  A ) be a directed graph, where V  = { v 0 ,  v 1 , … ,  v n } is the vertex set and A  = {( v i ,  v j ) :  v i ,  v j  ∈  V ,  i  ≠  j } is the arc set. Vertex v o corresponds to the depot acting as the central station for an homogeneous fleet of vehicles with maximum carrying load equal to Q , while vertices { v 1 ,  v 2 , … ,  v n } represent the customer population. With each customer i , is associated a non-negative delivery quantity d i , and a non-negative pick-up quantity p i . The required travel cost for traversing an arc ( v i ,  v j ) ∈  A is denoted by c ij , and may represent the time, the distance or the actual cost for implementing the transition from vertex i to j . The objective of VRPSPD is to determine the minimum cost set of routes that satisfy the following constraints: • every route begins and terminates at the central depot v 0 ; • each customer is visited exactly once, by exactly one route; • every route transports the delivery quantities from the depot to the visited customers; • every route transports the pick-up quantities from the visited customers back to the central depot; • at no point, of any route may the transported amount of goods exceed the capacity Q of a vehicle. Mathematical formulations for VRPSPD are provided by Dethloff, 2001  and  Nagy and Salhi, 2005 , and Tang Montané and Galvão (2006) . Our interest for VRPSPD arises both from its computational complexity, and its major commercial value. Being a generalization of the standard version of VRP, VRPSPD is an NP-hard combinatorial optimization problem. Therefore, exact methodologies can be applied for solving only small scale instances. To tackle medium and large scale problems, met in practical operations of real-world distribution systems, one’s interest should be concentrated at heuristic and metaheuristic solution approaches which are capable of generating high quality solutions within relatively short computational times. The intelligence of these approaches must be designed and modeled to achieve an effective balance between the intensification and diversification of the solution process. In this way, promising areas of the solution space are extensively examined without the search being trapped in local optima. Regarding its practical importance, the VRPSPD problem model covers numerous practical applications in the context of reverse logistics, and plays a central role in the efficiency of the operational planning level of distribution/collection systems involving the bi-directional flow of materials. In grocery distribution systems, for example, goods must be shipped to stores, while at the same time outdated products or empty bottles must be collected and sent back to the distribution point. Reusable packing boxes and containers also create the necessity for reverse material flows. Furthermore, during the last decades, environmental awareness has resulted into legislation forcing companies to take responsibility for their products (tires, lubricants, batteries) for lifetime. Therefore, the distribution networks must be designed in a bi-directional way, so that products can flow from, and to the producer facilities. Another practical example of VRPSPD arises when used products are collected in order to be remanufactured or disassembled into components. Such products may include industrial equipment, car parts, computers etc. The purpose of this paper is to present an effective hybrid metaheuristic algorithm for VRPSPD. The proposed metaheuristic development is a hybridization of two well-known metaheuristic methodologies, namely tabu search (TS) and guided local search (GLS). To help TS overcome premature local optima encountered, a guiding mechanism which incorporates the rationale of GLS is employed. The guiding mechanism continuously modifies the objective function of the problem by penalizing low-quality features not considered to be part of a near-optimal solution. In this way, TS evolves towards diverse trajectories of the solution space, and a more extensive search is accomplished. The number of algorithmic parameters was kept to a minimum to ensure the robustness of the method, when dealing with VRPSPD instances of diverse characteristics. The proposed framework was applied to 72 VRPSPD benchmark instances derived from the literature and involving from 50 to 400 customers. It produced fine results improving most of the best solution values previously reported. The rest of the article is outlined as follows: in Section 2 , a brief literature review on VRPSPD and other problems involving the bi-directional flow of materials is provided. In Section 3 , the proposed solution approach is presented, followed by the obtained computational results in Section 4 . Finally, Section 5 concludes the paper and provides future research directions regarding the VRPSPD distribution model. 2. Literature review Researchers have studied three different problem models involving the transportation of goods both from the central depot to the customers, as well as from the customers back to the central depot. These distribution systems are schematically described in Fig. 1 , where we present example routes and indicative diagrams of the carrying load of the vehicles. In the following, we present and briefly discuss the methodological contributions that have been reported for each of these three models. The interested reader is referred to Berbeglia, Cordeau, Gribkovskaia, and Laporte (2007) for a general framework of pick-up and delivery problems, as well as the methods proposed for solving them. Fig. 1. 