  We study vehicle routing problems with constraints on the distance traveled by each vehicle or on the number of vehicles. The objective is either to minimize the total distance traveled by vehicles or to minimize the number of vehicles used. We design constant differential approximation algorithms for k VRP. Note that, using the differential bound for M ETRIC 3VRP, we obtain the randomized standard ratio 197 99 + ε , ∀ ε > 0 . This is an improvement of the best-known bound of 2 given by Haimovich et al. (Vehicle Routing Methods and Studies, Golden, Assad, editors, Elsevier, Amsterdam, 1988). For natural generalizations of this problem, called E DGE C OST VRP, V ERTEX C OST VRP, M IN V EHICLE and k TSP we obtain constant differential approximation algorithms and we show that these problems have no differential approximation scheme, unless P=NP. Keywords Differential ratio ; Approximation algorithm ; VRP ; TSP Vehicle routing problems that involve the periodic collection and delivery of goods and services such as mail delivery or trash collection are of great practical importance. Simple variants of these real problems can be modeled naturally with graphs. Unfortunately even simple variants of vehicle routing problems are NP-hard. In this paper we consider approximation algorithms, and measure their efficiencies in two ways. One is the standard   measure giving the ratio apx / opt apx / opt , where opt and apx are the values of an optimal and approximate solution, respectively. The other measure is the differential   measure, that compares the worst ratio of, on the one hand, the difference between the cost of the solution generated by the algorithm and the worst cost, and on the other hand, the difference between the optimal cost and the worst cost. Formally, the differential measure gives the ratio α=( wor - apx )/( wor - opt ) α = ( wor - apx ) / ( wor - opt ) , where wor is the value of the optimal solution for the complementary problem. In [15] , the measure 1-α 1 - α is considered and it is called there z -approximation. Justification for this measure can be found for example in [1] , [6] , [15] , [20]  and  [27] . The main subject of this paper is differential approximation of routing problems. In these problems n customers have to be served by vehicles of limited capacity from a common depot . A solution consists of a set of routes, where each starts at the depot and returns there after visiting a subset of customers, such that each customer is visited exactly once. We refer to a problem as a VEHICLE ROUTING PROBLEM (VRP) if there is a constraint on the (possibly weighted) number of customers visited by a vehicle. This constraint reflects the assumption that the vehicle has a finite capacity and that it collects from the customers (or distributes among them) a commodity. The goal is to find a solution such that the total length of the routes is as small as possible. In other cases, the vehicle is just supposed to visit the customers, for example, in order to serve them. In such cases we refer to the problem as a T RAVELING S ALESMAN P ROBLEM (TSP) problem. We will assume in such cases that the limitation is on the total distance traveled by a vehicle and not on the number of customers it visits, and in this case we search solution with a minimum number of vehicles used. The problems that are considered here generalize the (undirected) TSP. Differential approximation algorithms for the TSP are given by Hassin and Khuller [15] and Monnot [20] . We will sometimes use these algorithms to generate approximations for the problems of this paper. However, we note an important difference. In the TSP, adding a constant k to all of the edge lengths does not affect the set of optimal solutions or the value of the differential ratio. The reason is that every solution contains exactly n   edges and therefore every solution value increases by exactly the same value, namely nk nk . In particular, this means that for the purpose of designing algorithms with bounded differential ratio, it does not matter whether d is a metric or not (it can be made a metric by adding a suitable constant to the edge lengths). In contrast, in some of the problems dealt with here, the number of edges used by a solution is not the same for every solution and therefore it may turn out, as we will see, that in some cases the metric version is easier to approximate.