Password: In this paper a new visual interactive approach for the classical vehicle routing problem with backhauls (VRPB) and its extensions is presented. The classical VRPB is the problem of designing minimum cost routes from a single depot to two type customers that are known as Backhaul (pickup) and Linehaul (delivery) customers where deliveries after pickups are not allowed. The mixed VRPB is an extension of the classical VRPB where deliveries after pickups are allowed. A decision support system (DSS) is developed in order to solve the classical VRPB, mixed VRPB and the restricted VRPB, which is a compromise problem between the classical VRPB, and the mixed VRPB. And a new criterion, which considers the remaining capacity of the vehicles, is proposed for producing solutions for mixed and restricted VRPB. The visual interactive approach that is based on Greedy Randomised Adaptive Memory Programming Search (GRAMPS) is described, and experimental results for the VRPB benchmark test problems are presented and analysed. The computational results on VRPB benchmark test problems indicated that the new criterion and the proposed visual interactive approach are effective towards finding a compromise between the mixed or restricted and the classical VRPB problems. The developed DSS is used by 18 students and reported to be capable of producing high quality solutions for the VRPB. Keywords Vehicle routing ; Backhauls ; Heuristics ; Decision support systems 1. Introduction Transportation is generally considered as being a significant factor of economic activities in any company. The problems of appropriate usage of the vehicle fleet appear as a matter of restricted resources of the company and expectations of customers and they are known as vehicle routing problems (VRP). The classical vehicle routing problem with backhauls (VRPB) is an extension of the VRP where two types of customers are served from a single depot by a fleet of vehicles. The first type of customers is known as “linehaul” customers who require delivery of goods to their specified location and the second type is known as “backhaul” customers who require pickups from their specified locations. The importance of the VRPB was addressed in an early study of Casco et al. [1] and an example in the grocery industry where the supermarkets are linehaul customers and the grocery suppliers are backhaul customers is given. The financial prudence of serving backhaul and linehaul customers on the same routes for the grocery industry in the USA was highlighted. In recent years, it became more obvious that in real-world applications allowing vehicles, which are returning from linehaul customers, to visit backhaul customers leads to significant saving in the distribution cost. Therefore the classical VRPB and its variants have attracted the attention of researchers. The objective of the classical VRPB is to find a set of routes with the following features that minimises the total distance travelled by the vehicle fleet: • All customers must be visited and each customer must be visited by only one vehicle. • Each vehicle is restricted by capacity constraints and the combined loads associated with linehaul and backhaul customers of each vehicle must not violate the given capacity constraints. • Vehicles may or may not be restricted by distance constraints. • Each vehicle has to serve backhaul customers, if any, after all linehaul customers are served. • The vehicle fleet size is fixed and vehicles are homogenous. The fourth feature given in the above list defines the fact that in the classical VRPB deliveries after pickups are not allowed. In theory this restriction reduces the complexity of the problem and in practice it avoids the problems that may rise because of rearranging goods on the vehicle and supports the fact that linehaul customers have priority over backhaul customers. However, it can be easily proposed that ignoring this restriction may reduce the total travelling cost. Therefore, the mixed VRPB is defined as an extension of the classical VRPB where the constraints and the objective are the same as in the classical VRPB but deliveries after pickups are allowed. This difference makes the mixed VRPB more difficult to solve than the classical VRPB. The main reason behind this difficulty is the need to check the capacity constraints for possible violation for every arc of each route before inserting a customer into a new position on any route. In the classical VRPB it is enough to check capacity constraints violations in the corresponding part of the route (backhaul or linehaul parts) while in the mixed VRPB these capacity constraints have to be checked for every link between the customers. Therefore, although the capacity constraints seem to be similar for both problem types they became more restrictive in the mixed VRPB. On the other hand, Wade and Salhi [2] proposed a new version of the mixed VRPB to produce a practical compromise between the classical VRPB and the mixed VRPB. In this new problem, mixed linehaul and backhaul customers are permitted but the position along the routes where the first backhaul may be serviced is restricted. They refer to this type of VRPB as the restricted VRPB, where the constraints prevent the inclusion of backhaul customers until a given percentage of the total linehaul load has been delivered. The classical VRPB, the mixed VRPB and the restricted VRPB are the special case versions of the basic VRP where two different types of customers are served. Therefore they are NP-hard and the computational effort required to solve these problem increases exponentially with the problem size. This implies that real-life problems are much larger and thus heuristics have been used to solve the classical VRP and its extensions in practice. However, most of these heuristic methods have been proposed as part of theoretical research not for real-life applications and are not necessarily suitable to implement within a computerised routing software system. Moreover they do not give users (decision makers) any opportunity to control the solution process using their judgment and they require a lot of computational time which may not allow any visual or manual improvement process. But in real-world distribution management systems, decision makers may wish to have a simple and intuitive solution method that is easy to understand and use with a nonexpert person, requiring short computational time to produce good quality solutions for their company's distribution problems. In this paper we propose an inexpensive decision support system (DSS) based on a new Greedy Randomised Adaptive Memory Programming Search (GRAMPS) algorithm to solve the classical VRPB, the mixed VRPB and the restricted VRPB in a visual interactive environment. Furthermore a new criterion for creating good solutions for the mixed and the restricted VRPB is proposed based on the vehicle's free capacity when accepting backhauls before all the deliveries have been made, to help the user produce routes that are workable in practice. In the remainder of this paper, we review some of the best-known works in the literature. Then, the proposed method and the DSS are discussed. The paper concludes with some test results for the VRPB benchmarks given in the literature. 2. Literature review Several exact and heuristic algorithms for the solution of the classical VRPB and its extensions have been proposed that are variations on algorithms for the VRP. In this section brief descriptions of two early methods and some recent heuristics for the VRPB and mixed VRPB are presented. 2.1. Heuristics for the classical VRPB The classical VRPB has been studied by several researchers for more than 20 years and because of its complexity heuristics are commonly used to deal with it. In the early 1980's Deif and Bodin [3] proposed the first constructive method for the classical VRPB, which is an extension of Clarke and Wright's [4] savings algorithm. Goetschalckx and Jacobs-Blecha [5] proposed a two-phase method that is in the cluster-first route-second category for the classical VRPB with Euclidean cost matrix. Their approach is based on space-filling curves; in this implementation the space-filling transformation was used to assign a number between 0 and 1 for each customer according to its relative position on a line. This transformation was applied to the backhaul and linehaul customers separately and these two different kinds of sequence of customers were clustered in order to build feasible routes. Goetschalckx and Jacobs-Blecha applied a greedy clustering method in which linehaul and backhaul routes are built separately. After all feasible backhaul and linehaul routes were constructed each linehaul route was merged with a backhaul route that is the closest to the linehaul route according to their space-filling transformation values. They proposed a set of Euclidean VRPB test problems with 25–150 customers where 25–50% of them are backhaul. The method was tested on these problems and the results showed that although the solutions were not better than the results given in [3] the solution times were shorter especially for the large test problems. In their second paper [6] Goetschalckx and Jacobs-Blecha used a clustering method, which is based on the generalised assignment approach proposed by Fisher and Jaikumar [7] where the number of routes K that will be constructed in the heuristic was specified in advance. The linehaul customers are sorted according to their increasing distance from the depot and the backhaul customers are sorted according to their decreasing distance to the depot. Both customer sequences are divided into K clusters by solving generalised assignment heuristics. After clustering backhaul and linehaul customers separately, linehaul and backhaul routes are merged according to the best combination of connections that has the smallest distance whilst not allowing any backhaul customer before a linehaul customer. This method was tested on the same test problems given in [5] and the results showed that the method obtained better results than the results found with the first approach given in [5] . Another two-phase method for the classical VRPB was proposed by Toth and Vigo [8] . Their approach is a cluster-first route-second heuristic and solves both symmetric and asymmetric VRPB problems in which visiting backhaul customers before linehaul customers and routes containing only backhaul customers are not allowed and the vehicles are without distance restrictions.