Password: The Capacitated Vehicle Routing Problem with Time Windows (VRPTW) consists in determining the routes of a given number of vehicles with identical capacity stationed at a central depot which are used to supply the demands of a set of customers within certain time windows. This is a complex multi-constrained problem with industrial, economic, and environmental implications that has been widely analyzed in the past. This paper deals with a multi-objective variant of the VRPTW that simultaneously minimizes the travelled distance and the imbalance of the routes. This imbalance is analyzed from two perspectives: the imbalance in the distances travelled by the vehicles, and the imbalance in the loads delivered by them. A multi-objective procedure based on Simulated Annealing, the Multiple Temperature Pareto Simulated Annealing (MT-PSA), is proposed in this paper to cope with these multi-objective formulations of the VRPTW. The procedure MT-PSA and an island-based parallel version of MT-PSA have been evaluated and compared with, respectively, sequential and island-based parallel implementations of SPEA2. Computational results obtained on Solomon’s benchmark problems show that the island-based parallelization produces Pareto-fronts of higher quality that those obtained by the sequential versions without increasing the computational cost, while also producing significant reduction in the runtimes while maintaining solution quality. More specifically, for the most part, our procedure MT-PSA outperforms SPEA2 in the benchmarks here considered, with respect to the solution quality and execution time. ► It is presented the Multiple-Temperature Pareto Simulated Annealing (MT-PSA). ► The sequential MT-PSA is parallelized with MPI using the island-based model. ► The algorithms are evaluated in a vehicle routing problem with time-windows. ► The island-based parallelization using MPI outperforms to the sequential algorithm. ► Parallel implementations obtain good results in comparison with the best known solutions. Keywords Multi-objective meta-heuristics ; Parallel processing ; Simulated Annealing ; Vehicle routing ; Time windows ; Route balancing 1. Introduction The vehicle routing problem is a type of combinatorial optimization problems that frequently occurs in real life applications, like transportation, logistics, and scheduling. Since the family of vehicle routing problems is included in the category of NP-hard problems ( Lenstra & Rinnooy Kan, 1981 ), they are hard to solve, especially when the number of customers is large ( Lee, Lee, Lin, & Ying, 2010 ). They have been addressed using many different techniques including both exact and heuristic methods ( Eksioglu, Vural, & Reisman, 2009 ), but the high computational cost of exact methods and their poor performance in large problems has involved that the current research concentrates on stochastic algorithms that are capable of producing feasible but not necessarily optimal solutions in limited time. Real-world optimization problems encountered in economics, engineering, or industry require the design of efficient algorithms. When the problem complexity is high, such as NP-hard problems, it is generally useful to apply heuristic and meta-heuristic methods, thanks to the fact that they support managers in decision-making with approximate solutions to complex problems in a quick way ( Glover & Kochenberger, 2003 ). Although routing problems have been the subject of a large number of papers, few of them apply computational optimization algorithms for solving multi-objective vehicle routing problems. However, the majority of real life problems are not limited to minimizing the operational costs derived from travel distance, but also other objectives can be considered ( Jozefowiez, Semet, & Talbi, 2008 ). Therefore, methods that provide a range of solutions representing the trade-off between objectives are crucial for many real-world applications. For this purpose, Pareto-based multi-objective optimization is often applied with the aim of obtaining a set of non-dominated solutions, which is later analyzed by the decision maker in order to choose a particular solution based on particular criteria. Meta-heuristics also produce quality solutions in the multi-objective context, but this is usually at the expense of longer computation times. Therefore, the use of parallel processing becomes an interesting, if not the best, tool to obtain competitive solutions in an acceptable runtime. Parallel processing allows the researchers both to explore the solution space more extensively and to accelerate the search process. The traditional fields of improvement in parallelism have been orientated to experimentation on high-budget equipment, such as clusters of computers or shared memory machines thanks to their high-performance and scalability. The generalized presence of multi-core microprocessors in almost all the computing platforms makes it possible to take advantage of parallel processing even for the desktop computer user without the need for accessing a high performance server. Over time, researchers have developed more powerful algorithms that find better solutions to single-objective vehicle routing problems by taking advantage of faster computational resources ( Groër, Golden, & Wasil, 2011 ). However, the application of parallel processing to solve multi-objective variants of vehicle routing problems is still an open research field. This paper proposes the use of parallel processing to improve the performance of Pareto-based algorithms when solving multi-criteria vehicle routing problems with time windows. The paper is further organized as follows: Section 2 offers a brief overview of the state of the art of the vehicle routing problems and formally describes the Capacitated Vehicle Routing Problem with Time Windows (VRPTW). Furthermore, some previous parallel implementations for solving routing problems and some multi-objective variants are described. Section 3 presents the sequential Simulated Annealing-based meta-heuristic, and its parallelization using the Island model. Results of the empirical analysis carried out in a multi-core workstation are given in Section 4 , while conclusions are drawn in Section 5 . 2. Vehicle routing problems: An overview The aim of this section is to provide a brief but comprehensive overview of the previous research works related with vehicle routing problems with time windows using parallel and multi-objective optimization techniques. 2.1. The Capacitated Vehicle Routing Problem with hard Time Windows (VRPTW) The Traveling Salesman Problem (TSP) is an optimization problem where only one vehicle (salesman) has to visit all the customers. Unfortunately, most practical transportation applications involve that either the customer demands exceed the vehicle capacity or that it is possible to reduce the total distance travelled by using more than one vehicle. The vehicle routing problem (VRP) was first introduced by Dantzig and Ramser (1959) as a generalization of the TSP that overcomes this drawback by using multiple vehicles in the transportation process. Many extensions of the basic VRP have been proposed in last decades to include aspects such as characteristics of the network, the customers’ demands, the fleet, the costs, or the number of objectives, which make the problem more difficult to solve. The Capacitated Vehicle Routing Problem with (hard) Time Windows (CVRPTW or simply VRPTW) is an important variant of the VRP which consists of routing a homogeneous fleet of vehicles with identical capacity stationed at a central depot (logistic center) which operates within a certain time windows. The vehicles are used to visit and fully supply the demands of a set of geographically scattered customers so that each vehicle route starts and ends at a central depot, and that the total demand met by any route cannot exceed the vehicle capacity. The customers can be supplied only once by exactly one vehicle and have predefined requirements of goods and a service time. The distance between customers is measured by Euclidean distances, and the total distance travelled by all the vehicles defines the traveling times. Each customer has a certain time window, which involves that the vehicle must begin the service to the customer within the time window defined by the earliest time and the latest time when the customer allows the start of the service ( El-Sherbeny, 2010 ). Therefore, the optimization problem is to determine the route followed by each vehicle to serve its assigned customers, while the distance travelled by the vehicles is minimized and the capacity and time windows constraints are satisfied.