Password: One of the most important factors in implementing supply chain management is to efficiently control the physical flow of the supply chain. Due to its importance, many companies are trying to develop efficient methods to increase customer satisfaction and reduce costs. In various methods, cross-docking is considered a good method to reduce inventory and improve responsiveness to various customer demands. However, previous studies have dealt mostly with the conceptual advantages of cross-docking or actual issues from the strategic viewpoint. It is also necessary, however, to considering cross-docking from an operational viewpoint in order to find the optimal vehicle routing schedule. Thus, an integrated model considering both cross-docking and vehicle routing scheduling is treated in this study. Since this problem is known as NP-hard, a heuristic algorithm based on a tabu search algorithm is proposed. In the numerical example, our proposed algorithm found a good solution whose average percentage error was less than 5% within a reasonable amount of time. Keywords Supply chain management (SCM) ; Cross-docking ; Vehicle routing scheduling ; Tabu search algorithm 1. Introduction Recently, many companies are being required to satisfy more complicated customer demands. Thus, many companies are trying to obtain a high level of agility, flexibility, and reliability for various demands. However, operations of a single company have a limit in improving customer satisfaction, because operations of a single company can have an adverse effect on those of the other companies in the supply chain. For that reason, supply chain management is attractive to many companies looking to efficiently improve customer satisfaction. One of the most important things in implementing supply chain management is to efficiently control the physical flow of the supply chain. Apte and Viswanathan (2000) mentioned that 30% of price is incurred in the distribution process. Therefore, improvement of the material flow through efficient management of the distribution process is considered an essential activity to increase customer satisfaction. Thus, many companies are investigating and developing methods to efficiently control their material flow. In a number of these methods, cross-docking is considered a good method to reduce inventory and improve customer satisfaction. This is why many companies choose cross-docking to manage the physical flow of their supply chains. Cross-docking is defined as the continuous process to the final destination through the cross-dock, without storing products and materials in a distribution center ( Apte & Viswanathan, 2000 ). When cross-docking is implemented in the supply chain, products in various locations are collected in the cross-dock prior to transportation to their destination. After classification according to product destination in the cross-dock, products are moved from the cross-dock to their respective destinations. This material flow in which cross-docking is implemented is illustrated in Fig. 1 . Fig. 1.  The concept of cross-docking. Two key points of cross-docking are simultaneous arrival and consolidation. In Fig. 1 , all vehicles from suppliers arrive at the cross-dock simultaneously. If all vehicles do not arrive at the cross-dock simultaneously, some vehicles have to wait. Therefore, the timing for all vehicles in the pickup process has to be synchronized to reduce waiting time. According to the destination, all products are classified and loaded to each vehicle in the cross-dock. This is called consolidation. Then, all vehicles leave the cross-dock to distribute products to their destinations. If simultaneous arrival and consolidation can be easily accomplished in a supply chain’s physical flow, all products can be moved from suppliers to customers without any interruptions. Therefore, we can expect to reduce inventory level and lead-time for delivery. Generally, there is no inventory in the cross-dock. If stockout occurs frequently due to demand fluctuation and limited cross-dock capacity, a cross-docking system cannot be operated. In this case, some inventory must be stored in warehouses to respond to the uncertainty of future demands. However, we can more accurately forecast demands if the demands for the products in question are stable. For this reason, we maintain that the cross-docking system is best suited for products whose demand is stable and whose unit stockout cost is low. For example, groceries or agricultural products are typical products with stable demands and low unit stockout cost. It is necessary to quickly deliver these products to customers for freshness and because of the short period of circulation. Moreover, unit stockout cost for these products is relatively low. Thus, these products are appropriate for delivery through cross-docking. To effectively apply cross-docking, both the pickup and delivery processes must be considered. The physical flow from the supplier to the cross-dock is called the pickup process. The core issue in the pickup process is simultaneous arrival at the cross-dock. Thus, we have to consider the vehicle routing and scheduling for simultaneous arrival. In the cross-dock, arrived products are classified into a certain group according to their destination. These products are then delivered to customers without delay or storage. Therefore, the number of arrived products at the cross-dock has to be equal to that of products delivered from the cross-dock. The process from the cross-dock to the customers is called the delivery process. As with the pickup process, the issue of vehicle routing scheduling must be considered. Thus, improvement of physical flow in the supply chain can be realized by the synthetic optimization of all processes, including pickup, cross-docking, and delivery. Moreover, routes and schedules of vehicles must be considered in order to synthetically optimize the physical flow. Therefore, we treat the vehicle routing/scheduling problem together with cross-docking to improve material flow in the supply chain. Although the importance of cross-docking in a supply chain is widespread among companies, the many studies related to vehicle routing scheduling which consider the cross-docking system have not yet been treated. Most studies have focused on the concept of cross-docking and cases in point. Allen, 2001  and  Luton, 2003 described the advantages of cross-docking. Apte and Viswanathan (2002) introduced cross-docking as one of the recent strategic and technological innovations in the management of a manufacturing supply chain. Recently, some studies treated actual issues of cross-docking from a strategic viewpoint. Jayaraman and Ross (2003) dealt with the PLOT (production, logistics, outbound, and transportation) design problem, which incorporates cross-docking into a supply chain environment. However, their approach was to assign a cross-dock to a customer zone with minimum cost at each strategic and operational level. Sung and Song (2003) considered an integrated service network design problem to find the location of cross-docks centers and allocation of vehicles. Then, a heuristic algorithm based on a tabu search algorithm was proposed. Gümüs and Bookbinder (2004) treated the problem to determine transportation policies within the network and whether to operate each cross-dock. Subsequently, commercial software including LINGO and CPLEX was used to find solutions. In summary, previous studies focused on the determination of optimal locations for cross-docks and the allocation of vehicles. Here, we treat the vehicle routing scheduling problem with a cross-docking system from an operational viewpoint. Therefore, we review previous studies on various vehicle routing problems in supply chain management.