Password: The dynamic vehicle routing problems (DVRP) is an extension of vehicle routing problems (VRP) in order to consider possible variations of travel times in the network. In this research, a two-stage framework for solving dynamic vehicle routing problem is proposed. In the first stage, the sweep method is adopted in vehicle assignment. In the second stage, a tabu search algorithm is implemented to improve routes under real-time information. The framework is implemented in an object-oriented approach and possible benefit from real-time information is illustrated through numerical simulation. The simulation-assignment model, DynaTAIWAN is applied in numerical simulation to evaluate real-time routing strategies in a traffic network. Numerical experiments are conducted in a 50 Nodes Network and a Taichung City. The results show that positive benefits could be achieved through utilization of real-time information with careful design. ► The fleet management problem is explored in vehicle assignment and real-time route updating. ► The vehicle assignment is accomplished through a classical algorithm: the sweep method. ► The real-time updating algorithm is developed through tabu search algorithm to consider possible dynamic variations of link travel times. ► A simulation-assignment model, DynaTAIWAN, is applied to provide traffic simulation and assignment capabilities under mixed traffic flow conditions. ► The framework provides a practical tool for the evaluation of vehicle routing strategies under real-time information. Keywords Logistics management ; Vehicle routing problem ; Vehicle assignment ; Real-time information ; Sweep method ; Tabu search 1. Introduction As the advancement of information technology (IT), the competition of businesses has been changed from single entity to a whole supply chain. Logistics management has been one of the most important parts in the supply chain management ( Chopra & Meindl, 2001 ). More and more distribution centers (DC) have been established to provide the flexibility of sales and supply. Major daily operation issues in distribution centers are routes and schedules of trucks. The IT applications in commercial vehicle operations (CVO), especially in communication and information technologies, allow the study of dynamic vehicle routing problems under new and updated information, such as real-time traffic conditions, vehicle status, and new coming demands ( Gendreau et al., 1999 , Ghiani et al., 2003 , Hu et al., 2003  and  Psaraftis, 1995 ). Two major operational benefits of CVO include: (1) dynamically assign vehicles to time-sensitive demands, and (2) efficiently reroute vehicle according to current traffic conditions. However, critical problems, involved in obtaining these benefits, include vehicle assignment and vehicle routing problem (VRP) in real time. Vehicle assignment and routing problems have been studied for several decades ( Bodin et al., 1983  and  Powell and Spivey, 2004 ). Although most real-world vehicle routing problems are dynamic, and the traditional methodologies for this class of problems has been based on adaptations of static algorithms. These static routing strategies are developed under static travel time, but they do not consider real-time traffic flow conditions. Dynamic vehicle routing problems (DVRP) need to consider real-time information as well as demands, and thus information attributes are important to the DVRP. DVRP is an extension of VRP in order to consider possible variations of travel times in the network. A vehicle fleet of fixed capacities has to serve customers of fixed demand from a central depot. Customers must be assigned to vehicles and the vehicles are routed so that the total time spent on the routes is minimized. The travel time between two customers or between a customer and the depot depends on the traffic network characteristics as well as traffic conditions. In this research, a two-stage framework for solving DVRP is proposed. In this framework, DVRP is divided into vehicle assignment and real-time route improvement. In both stages, simple algorithms are integrated in a complicated environment. In the first stage, the sweep method is adopted in vehicle assignment process. In the second stage, a tabu search algorithm is implemented to improve routes under real-time information. The advantages of the proposed framework are (1) each stage is modularized, (2) these simple algorithms provide positive benefits and (3) the framework is easy to be implemented. The contributions of this research include the integration of two existing algorithms, the implementation in an object-oriented approach, and the illustration of possible benefits of real-time information. The solution approach is experimented through numerical experiments in an evaluation framework in which assigning and routing operations could be simulated in a realistic traffic environment. The simulation-assignment model, DynaTAIWAN ( Hu, Liao, Chen, Huang, & Chiang, 2007 ), is applied to evaluate assigning and routing strategies in a traffic network. Numerical experiments are conducted in a 50 Nodes Network and a Taichung City Network to explore the simulation framework for dynamic fleet management problem under real-time information supply strategies. This paper is organized as follows: the next section briefly describes some related research. The research framework and solution algorithms are discussed in the third section. The simulation model, DynaTAIWAN, is discussed in the fourth section, followed by numerical experiments and analysis. Concluding comments are given in the last section. 2. Literature review The fleet management problem includes two types of subproblems: fleet assignment problem and routing problem ( Bramel & Simchi-Levi, 1997 ). Assume a dispatcher uses a fleet of vehicles of limited capacity to serve a set of demands. First, the dispatcher must decide how to partition the demands into groups that can be served by a vehicle. Second, the dispatcher must decide what sequence to use so as to minimize cost. VRP is the problem of constructing vehicles routes of minimum total cost starting and ending at a depot, such that each node is visited by one vehicle, and satisfying some constraints, such as capacity, duration, and time windows. Since VRP problem is NP-Hard, different solution techniques, including heuristics, mathematical programming based heuristics, meta-heuristics, and polyhedral combinatorics based optimization algorithms, are applied to obtain acceptable solutions within a reasonable time frame. For dynamic assignment problem, Powell and Spivey (2004) described a set of network assignment models, from deterministic to stochastic models, and also presented a hybrid model. Brown and Graves (1981) presented an integer linear programming formulation of a real-time routing and scheduling problem for petroleum tank trucks. The model developed truck tours for known (deterministic) customer demands. Gavish (1981) described an optimization-based, hierarchical model for real-time routing scheduling. All of these papers presented optimal algorithms or near optimal heuristics for use in a real-time environment. The underlying models do not incorporate forecasted demands and/or real travel time. With the advancement of communication and information technologies, real-time traffic conditions as well as dynamic demands are possible to obtain during the vehicle’s journey, thus a realistic vehicle routing problem is defined as DVRP. Psaraftis (1995) addressed some basic characteristics of DVRP, and pointed out that computer and communication technologies, such as electronic data interchange (EDI), geographic information systems (GIS), global positioning systems (GPS), and Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS), have significantly enhanced the possibilities for efficient dynamic routing. Possible information attributes might include evolution of information (static/dynamic), quality of information (known-deterministic/forecast/probabilistic/unknown), availability of information (local/global), and processing of information (centralized/decentralized) ( Psaraftis, 1995 ). These information attributes might have great impact on how to develop and design an efficient and good dynamic vehicle routing algorithms. Under on-line VRP consideration, Ghiani et al. (2003) listed several possible applications for this type of problems: dynamic fleet management, couriers, rescue and repair service companies, dial-a-ride system, taxi cab service, emergency services. Possible DVRP can be classified as follows ( Hu et al., 2003 ): 1. On-line VRP Demand information is not known when vehicles are assigned, and demand information is revealed on-line. Thus, the problem focuses on how to incorporate new demands into existing and/or new vehicle routes in order to minimize total travel cost. 2. DVRP under real-time information Another category of DVRP is vehicle routing under real-time traffic conditions, such that vehicles could be efficiently rerouted according to current traffic conditions. 3. On-line VRP under real-time information In order to corporate possible coming demands and current traffic conditions, on-line VRP problems can also developed with consideration of real-time information. In order to consider travel time variations, different approaches have been developed. Malandraki and Daskin (1992) used a step function to represent time-dependent issue and develop a heuristic approach. Stochastic VRP (SVRP) has been proposed to consider such travel time variations ( Gendreau et al., 1996  and  Laporte et al., 1992 ). Due to the difficulties of capturing the variation of travel time in a traffic network, simulation models have been used to generate realistic travel time and applied in different routing strategies. Hu (2001) provided an evaluation framework under the consideration of real-time information, and the vehicle routing strategies are solved through a heuristic approach. Hu et al. (2003) applied a SVRP approach in a chance-constrained formulation ( Laporte et al., 1992 ) and the SVRP solution formulation is solved through branch-and-bound technique by CPLEX. Ichoua, Gendreau, and Potvin (2003) proposed time-dependent vehicle speed model to consider possible travel time variation for different time intervals and links, and the approach is solved through a parallel tabu search heuristic. Fleischmann, Gnutzmann, and Sandvob (2004) used dynamic information and dynamic path calculation, and propose three different heuristics to solve DVRP.