Password: This paper studies the possible integration of long-haul operations by transportation mode and service level (defined by guaranteed delivery time) for package delivery carriers. Specifically, we consider the allocation of deferred items to excess capacity on alternative modes in ways that allow all transportation modes to be utilized better. Model formulation and solution techniques are discussed. The solution techniques presented produce solutions for large-scale problem instances with up to 141 consolidation terminals and 17 breakbulk terminals. Allowing deferred items to travel by air reduces long-haul transportation costs. These savings increase with the amount of excess air capacity. Keywords Package delivery ; Distribution and logistics ; Multicommodity network flow ; Large-scale optimization 1. Introduction Rapid growth in the package delivery industry has led carriers to offer a wide range of transportation services (i.e., overnight delivery, two-day delivery, etc.) to capture a larger share of the package delivery market and to utilize resources more efficiently. As a result, new opportunities have emerged in the integration of operations by transportation mode (air, ground) and service level (express, deferred). This paper is part of a larger research project that combines continuous approximation and discrete methodologies to study multimodal package delivery systems (see Smilowitz, 2001 ). It is motivated by the need to study the various degrees of mode and service level integration within the package delivery industry. Smilowitz and Daganzo (2002) show that integrating operations can produce significant savings in local distribution costs. In addition, with integrated operations, some deferred items (3+ day delivery windows) that normally travel by ground vehicles may be sent by air if excess capacity exists. By intelligently choosing which deferred items to shift to the air network, the ground network can be operated more efficiently and overall network capacity can be better utilized. In particular, this paper addresses the routing of deferred items and ground vehicles; called here the “deferred item and vehicle routing problem” (DIVRP). Modeling and solution techniques appropriate for large-scale instances of the problem are presented. We perform a computational study to evaluate the economic impact of sharing aircraft capacity by express and deferred packages. Our computational experiments suggest that utilizing the excess capacity on aircraft for deferred package transportation can be an attractive cost-savings option for package delivery carriers serving multiple service levels. Related literature is discussed in Section 2 . Section 3 describes the deferred item and vehicle routing network, and Section 4 presents the model formulation. Section 5 presents the solution method used for large-scale instances. Computational results are discussed in Section 6 . Section 7 summarizes the key findings and proposes future work. 2. Related literature The DIVRP is a special case of the service network design problem, with multiple commodities, transshipment points, vehicle types, and service deadlines. For a review of service network design problems with applications to transportation, see Crainic (2000) and Magnanti and Wong (1984) . Service network design problems are typically formulated as multicommodity network design problems. These problems have been studied extensively in the literature, both because of the many applications that exist (especially in transportation) and because of the challenges of solving these large-scale mixed integer network problems. Solving even the linear programming (LP) relaxation of the problems is a challenge due to the excessive size of formulations even for small instances. The LP relaxation does not often produce good bounds and can be highly degenerate for large instances (see Crainic, 2000 ). To circumvent these problems, a variety of techniques have been proposed in the literature; a sample of problems and techniques is listed below. Solution methods that decompose the item and vehicle routing have been successful in solving large multicommodity network flow problems ( Crainic and Rousseau, 1986 ). To route aircraft and packages in express delivery networks, Armacost (2000) introduces composite variables to reduce the problem size. Kim et al. (1999) use column generation techniques, combined with cutting planes. Holmberg and Yuan (2000) use Lagrangian relaxation, combined with branch and bound techniques, to solve large-scale capacitated network design problems. Cordeau et al. (2000) employ Benders decomposition as an alternative to Dantzig–Wolfe decomposition and Lagrangian relaxation. Yano and Newman (2001) develop a solution procedure for a similar service network design problem with a single vehicle type. The DIVRP, which considers the simultaneous routing of deferred items and long-haul ground vehicles consistent with delivery time windows and availability of excess capacity, is formulated as a multicommodity network design problem with flow balance constraints on the integer design variables. As such, it exhibits many of the problems cited above, and even obtaining a feasible solution for realistic-size instances is computationally challenging. We develop a solution approach to address these issues, comprised of three tasks. (1) Solve LP relaxations using path-based reformulation with column generation to overcome prohibitive memory requirements of the arc based formulations. (2) Implement recently developed cutting plane techniques to eliminate part of the fractional solutions of linear relaxation. (3) Develop effective LP rounding heuristics to find feasible integer solutions. Each task is described in detail in the paper, with comments on the different approaches tested. 3. Network description The networks in question include two transportation modes: air and ground, and two service levels: express and deferred. Express items are highly time sensitive; deferred items are not. All regional transportation is conducted by ground vehicles (delivery vans, trucks, etc.), but long-haul transportation can be performed by ground (tractor-trailers) and air. In non-integrated delivery networks, express items are transported by air for long-haul trips due to restrictive time constraints. 1 Deferred items are sent over ground long-haul networks. The DIVRP explores potential savings obtained by integrating the transportation of items with different service levels. Given an aircraft schedule we test the impact of routing some deferred items on excess air capacity rather than the ground network. The time-space network, G =( N , A ), is used to model the system, where each node in the set N represents a physical location and an instant of discrete time within the planning horizon (see Fig. 1 ). Let C ⊂ N denote the consolidation terminal nodes, B ⊂ N denote the breakbulk terminals nodes, and H ⊂ N denote the air hub nodes. Consolidation terminals act as the origins and destinations of items. 2 At breakbulk terminals, items are transferred between ground vehicles for more efficient long-haul transportation. At air hubs, items are transferred between aircraft. An item is transported either through the air hubs by aircraft or through breakbulk terminals by ground vehicles. Fig. 1. 