  An extension to the classical vehicle routing problem where vehicles can be assigned more than one route within a working time period is investigated. A multi-phase constructive heuristic, which is enhanced by suitable data structure, is proposed. Results are given comparing to benchmarks from the literature. Keywords Heuristic ; Population ; Bin-packing ; Multiple trip 1. Introduction The problem within distribution management of scheduling vehicles from one or more fixed positions (depots) to service a given set of locations (customers) is called the vehicle routing problem (VRP). The scheduling process involves designing routes for the vehicles, subject to given constraints, in order to achieve the objective of minimizing the total cost of delivery. This paper addresses a VRP where the classical assumption of a one to one correspondence between routes and vehicles is removed. Known as the vehicle routing problem with multiple trips (VRPM), the problem is characterized by vehicles and hence drivers working multiple routes or trips within a given time period. In practice multiple trip scheduling is important since significant cost savings can be achieved if the number of vehicles and hence drivers is reduced. In some cases, a more suitable solution to the distribution problem may be to consider a larger set of vehicles which would reduce the problem to a classical-type VRP. Nevertheless, this is not always possible due to setup costs or constraints such as road access. The VRPM can be used for both strategic and tactical planning. Because a reduced vehicle fleet size might be more desirable, a strategic VRPM objective accounts for both vehicle and scheduling costs. In this situation, there might be a trade off between higher scheduling costs and lower vehicle and driver associated costs, the latter being usually more significant. In practice, within a tactical distribution system, the fleet might be fixed to the existing setup and so the objective is reduced to minimizing scheduling costs. This paper describes a proposed multi-phase constructive heuristic for the solution of the VRPM. In order to compare against benchmarks achieved from the literature a similar objective is chosen, i.e. the minimization of the maximum overtime restriction for a prescribed minimum vehicle fleet size. The next section provides a brief review of the literature. This is followed by a presentation of the main aspects of the algorithm, its motivation as well as notation and objective before the key features of the methodology are described in detail. Finally, computational results are given comparing against published results from the literature. 2. Literature review Although in practice multiple route assignment is common, there is a shortage of papers covering this feature. The first work to explicitly address multiple trips was made by Salhi [11] in the context of vehicle fleet mix. Limited to double trips, a matching algorithm is used to allocate routes to vehicles within a refinement process. This problem was also tackled by Fleischmann within a working paper [6] . Fleischmann attempts to generate a solution using a one-phase algorithm, by integrating a greedy-type heuristic with the need to assign route to vehicles. Using a saving measure with respect to pairs of customers, the feasibility of the assignment of partially constructed routes to vehicles is assessed. The route assignment is achieved by using the bin-packing heuristic best fit decreasing , BFD (see [8] for details). In this problem bins, items and corresponding weights are defined as vehicles, VRP routes and driver time required to service routes, respectively. A two phase approach was proposed by Taillard et al. [14] . A set of VRP solutions are constructed from a population of routes generated using the Tabu Search ( TS ) heuristic of Rochat and Taillard [10] before bin-packing is used to allocate routes to vehicles. Golden et al. [7] adopted this approach to solve a similar VRPM using the minimax objective. This is a balancing problem which has a wide applicability. A constructive and improvement heuristic was proposed by Brandao and Mercer [1] . They tackled multiple trips as part of a more extensive problem involving time windows and vehicle fleet mix. Using real test data, results showed that their heuristic produced savings of 20% when compared to the manual schedule. To compare with the benchmark of Taillard et al. [14] , Brandao and Mercer [2] modified their heuristic to solve the classical VRPM. Their approach is based on the nearest neighbour rule and the insertion criterion to assign customers to routes within vehicles. This process is repeated until all unrouted customers are inserted. The improvement phase attempts initially to remove overtime before reducing the routing cost within a TS framework using two types of trial moves namely insert and swap. This section presents the proposed multi-phase heuristic within an algorithmic structure. Initially both notation and objective function are given.