Password: This article introduces a new exact algorithm for the capacitated vehicle routing problem with stochastic demands (CVRPSD). The CVRPSD can be formulated as a set partitioning problem and it is shown that the associated column generation subproblem can be solved using a dynamic programming scheme. Computational experiments show promising results. Keywords Routing ; Stochastic programming ; Logistics 1. Introduction The deterministic capacitated vehicle routing problem (CVRP) has been widely studied in the literature, and can be described as follows. A set of customers must be provided with known quantities of a common commodity from a single depot. To make the deliveries, a fleet of identical vehicles, each with a given capacity, is available. The distance traveled by the vehicles to conduct the deliveries defines the travel cost of a route. The objective is to find a route collection of minimum total travel cost under the restrictions that (i) each route begins and ends at the depot, (ii) each customer is serviced exactly once, and (iii) the total demand on any route does not exceed the vehicle capacity. In this article we consider the capacitated vehicle routing problem with stochastic demands (CVRPSD). The CVRPSD differs from the CVRP with respect to the following points: 1. In the CVRPSD, the customers’ demands are stochastic variables of which only the probability distribution for each customer is assumed known at the time of planning. 2. In the CVRPSD, it is the expected total travel cost which is subject to minimization. 3. In the CVRPSD, the total actual demand on a route may exceed the vehicle capacity. In such cases a failure is said to occur. A strategy is required for updating the routes in case of such an event. The actual action resulting from this strategy is called a recourse action. The particular strategy affects the expected cost of a given route, so the strategy must be known at the time of planning. The CVRPSD has not received nearly the same level of attention as the CVRP. In the literature several reasons are given why only limited attention is paid to the CVRPSD. The most important of these might be the fact that the CVRP problem in itself is very hard to solve, and adding a stochastic dimension to the problem only increases the intractability. Nonetheless, neglecting the stochastic nature of demands during the planning of the routes can incur substantially higher expected costs than if the stochastic demands had been explicitly included in the route planning. For the TSP this has been thoroughly illustrated by Laporte and Trudeau in [8] . Moreover, neglecting the stochastic nature of demands might result in an inoptimal solution not only as a consequence of the customer sequence on each route as illustrated in [8] , but also as a consequence of an inoptimal allocation of customers among routes. In this article we formulate the CVRPSD as a two stage stochastic program with fixed recourse and capacity constraints. The article is organized as follows. Section 2 gives a brief literature review regarding research on the CVRPSD. Section 3 focuses on the CVRPSD modeling. Section 4 presents our new algorithm. Section 5 deals with the construction of test instances and Section 6 provides computational results obtained with the proposed algorithm. 2. Literature review To the best of our knowledge, the first to address the CVRPSD was Tillman in 1969 [20] . Tillman considered a multidepot variant of the CVRP with Poisson distributed demands. The model considered a cost tradeoff between exceeding the vehicle capacity and finishing the route with excess capacity. The solution approach was a modification of the savings algorithm originally introduced by Clarke and Wright in 1964 [4] . For further review of savings-based approaches for both constraint programming models and two stage stochastic programming models see [9] . Regarding the two stage stochastic programming approach, Bertsimas [1] formulated two widely accepted recourse actions (A) and (B), respectively. These are based on two different assumptions regarding the time at which a customer's actual demand becomes known. Strategy (A) assumes that a customer's actual demand becomes known only upon arrival at the customer. Strategy (B), however, assumes that actual demands become known early enough to enable the vehicle to skip customers with zero actual demand. The recourse action under both strategies is to deplete the vehicle at the point of failure, return to the depot to replenish, and continue the originally planned route from the point of failure. In the particular case where a customer's demand equals the remaining load on the vehicle, the vehicle returns to the depot to replenish before visiting the next customer. In their article in 1993, Laporte and Louveaux developed an integer L-shaped method for stochastic programs with recourse [16] . Their approach is based on adding feasibility cuts to a relaxed flow formulation of a CVRPSD until an integer feasible solution is found. If no integer solution can be found through the introduction of feasibility cuts, branching is applied. During this phase the expected failure cost is represented by a lower bound on its true value. When an integer solution is identified, the lower bound is compared to the actual expected failure cost of the identified integer solution. If a gap exists between the lower bound on the expected failure cost and the actual expected failure cost for the identified integer solution, an optimality cut is added. However, in their article no computational results were presented. The method has been applied to the CVRPSD in 1995 [12] , 1998 [17] , and 2002 [18] . In the latter, instances with up to 100 customers were solved. In 1999, Hjorring and Holt applied the L-shaped algorithm to the single vehicle CVRPSD and developed a new set of optimality cuts to improve the procedure. Furthermore they developed an improved lower bound on the expected failure cost [14] . When considering the computational results obtained by the L-shaped algorithm, it is obvious that the best results are obtained for instances with small expected demands relative to the vehicle capacity. This is not surprising since the L-shaped algorithm is based on a cutting procedure. In fact, as is the case for the CVRP, the effectiveness of the cutting-based algorithms seems to diminish as the capacity constraints become more restrictive. For the deterministic CVRP, the instances that have proven hardest to solve are characterized by restrictive vehicle capacities. This can be illustrated by considering the CVRP test instances E-n76-k7 , E-n76-k8 , E-n76-k10 , and E-n76-k14 , where the x in E-n76-kx stands for the minimum number of routes given the customer demands and the vehicle capacity. The ones with the smaller vehicle capacity, i.e., E-n76-k10 and E-n76-k14 , have been solved only recently (by the algorithm in [10] ), despite the fact that they were stated as early as 1969 [2] . Branch-and-cut algorithms had previously solved only E-n76-k7 and E-n76-k8 . Branch-and-price algorithms, on the other hand, benefit in general from tighter constraints, in the sense that a more restricted solution space is beneficial for the solution of the column generation subproblem. For example, branch-and-price has been the dominating approach to the VRPTW particularly in the case of tight time windows [5] . Similarly, there is reason to believe that column generation would be a promising approach for solving the type of CVRPSD instances that have proven most difficult to solve with existing (cutting-plane-based) exact algorithms. In this article we develop a new branch-and-price algorithm for the CVRPSD. Specifically, we formulate the CVRPSD as a set partitioning problem and develop a dynamic programming algorithm for solving the associated column generation subproblem. To ensure integrality, we develop a new branching procedure which exploits the asymmetric nature of the route costs.