Password: The traditional programming model is used to assume that each objective stands independently from one another; however, in reality, some interactions might exist between the criteria or attributes. In order to understand the problem of incomplete independence objectives, this study explores whether fuzzy measure is suitable for the vehicle routing problem or not. With the hospital operation scale expanding, the vehicle transmitting routing, which used to be planned by artificial and partly practical experience, has already insufficient. This study solves the vehicle routing problem by using the fuzzy measure method. It brings up a solving model to solve the immediate problem faced by the department of medical material transmitting in the hospital. Additionally, this study compares the fuzzy measure method with other programming methods, and takes Chang Gung Children's Hospital as the research objective. This study will demonstrate that it is unnecessary to consider the independence problem between objectives and the result of the programming is closer to the decision-maker's requirement when the fuzzy measure method is applied to objective programming. Besides, this study model can be regarded as a reference when the department of medical material transmitting in the hospital meditates its new transmitting routing in the future, or estimates present transmitting routing. Keywords Vehicle routing problem ; Fuzzy measure ; Hospital material 1. Introduction The types and applications of vehicle routing problems are numerous, and the programming research has been gradually extended from a single objective to a multi-objective approach. In multiple objective decision analysis, the traditional programming model is used to assume that each objective stands independently from the other. In reality, however, some interaction and replacement effects might exist between the principles and attributes. Thus, it is quite important to truly understand the weight of the experts or decision-makers. Regarding the decision of the objectives' weight of the problem, the sums usually estimate to be one. But the fuzzy measure method, adopted in this research, might not be so. Some substitute or complementary relationships might exist between objectives; therefore, the fuzzy measure method is suitable for multi-objective decision analysis, regardless of dependent or independent objectives. With the development and transformation of local economy in recent years, living standards and education levels have made dramatic improvements. Relatively, the request for the quality of life has been enhanced as people in Taiwan have progressively changed their attitudes towards personal health care. Consequently, the general public has heightened their expectations concerning the quality of hospital service. Moreover, the implementation of National Health Insurance has a strong impact on the systems of all hospitals in Taiwan. The Bureau of National Health Insurance, suddenly becoming national hospitals' main payee, holds mighty bargaining power. As a result, hospitals no longer have absolute influence on the price of medical materials. By extending the service items in the hospital and providing higher quality, hospitals' revenues can increase. However, the hospitals must bear the burden of additional increasing costs. The department of medical material transmitting management, not directly involving patient treatment, belongs to the section of logistic support administration; however, it must manage the medical material transmitting within each nursing station and administration section, as well as merchandising and warehousing. In addition, it transmits daily required medical material to the demanded section within the scheduled time. Because of the limited human resources and conveyance in the transmitting department, it is essential for the manager in the department to understand how to handle these limited resources in order to efficiently deliver materials to their appointed locations. The most important management aspect in the department of medical material transmitting is the planning of vehicle transportation. For example, if the route scheme were inappropriate, it would waste human resources as well as raise conveyance costs. As a result, the transmitting-department's work efficiency would decrease. When scheming the vehicle transmitting routing, the manager should take various factors into consideration in order to avoid complicated problems. Without appropriate principles and models to follow, it would be difficult to provide an efficient and reasonable scheme. Therefore, this study takes the medical transmitting routing problem and researches the vehicle routing problem adopted with fuzzy measure. It will then establish a model for the vehicle routing scheme. The model will include decision variables such as transmitting time, vehicle balance, and vehicle capacity. 2. Literature review 2.1. Vehicle routing model review The most common areas for improvement in routing arrangement and programming are the travelling salesman problem (TSP) and the vehicle routing problem (VRP) ( Arunapuram, Mathur, & Solow, 2003 ). Both of these take similar factors into consideration; for example, both request minimal transmitting cost. TSP is a single routing problem with unlimited vehicle capacity, and it has been proved as an NP-hard problem by Bodin, Golden, Assad, and Ball (1983) . In other words, the solution time grows as the index number grows when the request points of the TSP problem increase. Consequently, it is difficult to seek the best solution for the TSP problem under the limited computer speed and capacity. Most researchers used heuristics to find the approximate best solution ( Backer, Furnon, Shaw, Kilby, & Prosser, 2000 ). In order to find a better approximate solution in the acceptable time range, it is necessary to develop a set of efficient heuristics methods when encountering a huge scale of TSP. Vehicle routing problem (VRP) tried to identify several routing circuits that passed through all request points and had a minimal total cost (total distance) in the subject of limited vehicle capacity ( Dantzig and Ramser, 1959 , Toth and Vigo, 1997  and  Wade and Salhi, 2002 ). In addition, each routing circuit only can operate by one car, and must go back to the depot after passing request points. Also, the sub-circuit will not be allowed to exist. VRP is often described by a mixed-math programming formula, which consists of zeros and ones. In order to prevent sub-circuit, the restrictive formula will increase by an index number as the decision variable increases; the time solving variable will also increase by the index number ( Golden, Assad, Levy, & Gheysens, 1984 ). This creates problems that have the characteristics of NP-hard. Therefore, it is difficult to find out the best solution by the exact solution method. Thus, the exact solution method is not suitable for VRP. There are currently many scholars devoted to researching a heuristics-based solution method which can find a better approximate solution for VRP. The local search method of tradition heuristics often causes the characteristic of starting solution, or the restraint of searching method, that only finds a local optimum. In order to lessen this disadvantage, many experts have used some effective enlighten solution methods, including tabu search, simulated annealing, genetic algorithm, etc. ( Ghiani et al., 2003  and  Skiscim and Golden, 1983 ) which could diminish the disadvantage of local optimum. 2.2. Fuzzy measure Fuzzy measure is a measure for representing the membership degree of an object to candidate sets. In general, when fuzzy measures are applied to multiple attribute decision-making, the candidate sets correspond to the evaluation items, and fuzzy measure values stand for the important degrees of corresponding evaluation items. Furthermore, fuzzy measure can be used with fuzzy integral for the purpose of aggregating evidence or information ( Tahani & Keller, 1983 ). In practice, fuzzy measures can be used to express the grades of importance of the attributes ( Ishii and Sugeno, 1985 , Murofushi and Sugeno, 1989 , Sugeno, 1974  and  Sugeno and Kwon, 1985 ). In multiple objectives programming (MOP), the goal usually is to discover some possible solutions to help decision-makers formulate a final choice. There are two ways to evaluate the weight of goals in MOP: decision subjective conscious and objective information evaluation ( Tang, Tzeng, & Wang, 1999 ). The objective's weight can be evaluated by adopting the result of the possible proposal. On the other hand, research of the subjective weight in the past was used to adopt Analysis Hierarchy Process (AHP). AHP was initiated by Saaty in 1971 and was suitable for finding out the solution of a problem that had the independent character between objectives ( Dyer, Fishburn, Steuer, Wallenius, & Zionts, 1992 ). In reality, however, many problems exist in a non-independent situation. Therefore, AHP is not suitable for this study. In this study, the decision objectives have an interaction effect. Thus, it is very important to truly understand the weight of those experts or decision-makers. Usually, the sum of the objective's weight is assumed to be one, but the sum of the fuzzy measure that is adopted in this study might not be one, primarily because there is an interaction effect between objectives ( Chen et al., 2000  and  Lee and Leekwang, 1995 ). 3. Research methodology 3.1. Problem description The study uses Chang Gung Children's Hospital as an example. The purpose of this study is to research the problem of best-transmitting routing according to transmitting locations such as nursing stations, examination rooms, research rooms and administration sections, transmitting instruments and the limitation of their capacities. The transmitting location of this transmitting department is in Chang Gung Children's Hospital. The transmitting products only belong to medical materials. There is only one kind of transmitting instruments, electric car, and the limit of its carrying capacity is fixed, and the number of transmitting instruments is known and fixed. The decision objectives of each vehicle-transmitting route are the shortest transmitting time, minimal vehicle balance difference, and maximized vehicle capacity.