  The paper describes why optimal design of depot and hub transportation networks for parcel service providers makes it necessary to develop a generalized hub location and vehicle routing model (VRM). Analogous problems occur for postal, parcel and piece goods service providers. A generalized hub location and VRM is developed which encompasses the determination of the number, locations of hubs and depots and their assigned service areas as well as the routes between the demand points and consolidation points (depots, hubs). Because this task leads to a very complex transport design problem, a heuristic solution concept has to be developed. The applicability to a case study is demonstrated; the case of completely new system configuration for Austria is considered. Management must simultaneously decide the number, location, service areas and routes from demand points to depots and vice versa (the pickup and delivery structure) as well as the number and locations of hubs and the routes of depot–hub and hub–hub transports (the hub location or line haul structure), The developed management support decision model leads for real cases to a tremendous number of some million binary variables as well as continuous variables and million of constraints. Keywords Transportation networks ; Line haul structure ; Pickup and delivery structure ; Parcel service network ; LTL transports 1. Motivation of the problem To clarify our problem of transportation network design, let us consider a real case study: a mid-sized Austrian parcel delivery service. Their transportation network encompasses a pickup and delivery network with ten depots and one hub in Austria with complete geographic coverage, whereby 24-hour delivery service must be guaranteed. Its daily quantity of transshipments is about 40,000 parcels. The present system structure is depicted at the top of Fig. 1 . There are a total of 2042 demand points (identical to 2042 geographically comprehensive postal zones identified by their postal codes) that deliver and receive parcels from other demand points. Given is a prognosticated volume of traffic to be transferred (top illustration; darker areas indicate higher traffic). At the bottom of Fig. 1 the existing transport structure with one hub and 10 depots is visualized. A depot is a consolidation center that bundles the quantities of parcels of certain demand points to achieve economies of scale for less-than-truckload (LTL) transports. All demand points belonging to a depot form the service area of the depot. Key issues for the LTL industry include location of depots, assignment of loads to trucks, and scheduling and routing of pickups and deliveries. A hub is a consolidation center that bundles quantities between depots to achieve economies of scale for depot-to-depot transports. Fig. 1.  The logistics service provider was interested in answering the following questions by a scientific investigation: • What is the optimal network structure if only the anticipated quantity of transshipments in the area is known and the depots can be established anywhere from scratch? In the case of completely new system configuration we must decide the number, location, service areas, and routes from demand points to depots and vice versa (the pickup and delivery structure ) as well as the number and locations of hubs and the routes of depot–hub and hub–hub transports (the hub location or line haul structure ), which corresponds to the actual problem statement above. • Do cost arguments support closing a depot in an existing network system; what cost savings would be achieved? This question is relevant in practice, e.g., if a parcel transport company experiences a fall in demand in a particular region, or if greater automation allows a neighboring depot to be operated more economically than the depot to be closed. • Does it make sense to establish a new depot in an existing parcel system, and where would be its ideal location? This question applies if the network structure is being reconsidered due to a higher volume of traffic to be transferred. • Are the depot service areas of an existing system ideal, or what cost savings could be achieved by shifting the service area boundaries from a system viewpoint? • What savings potential could be realized in an existing system if the depot locations and boundaries were optimally arranged? With only slight change, this question again reflects the actual problem statement above. These design problems are typical in the strategic context for the goods-transport industry (postal, parcel or piece goods) and thus not only limited to parcel service providers. In Section 2 we first describe more precisely our problem and analyse the relevant literature to date. Because our problem can be seen as an extension of the well-known location–routing problem we present the transport network design for goods service providers by a generalized depot–hub location and vehicle routing problem in Section 3 . The resulting integrated multi-depot hub-location vehicle routing model (VRM) for network planning of parcel service is presented in the appendix. In Section 4 the solution concept is described. Section 5 discusses the results concerning the case study. In Section 6 we conclude the paper with a short summary and outlook. 2. Problem description and related literature The case study shows that logistics service providers in the parcel service industry must make decisions such as (1) location for depots and hubs, (2) allocation of customers and postal zones to service areas of depots and (3) determination of transportation routes connecting customer, depots and hubs. These interrelated decisions affect the quality of customer service and the total logistic system cost. Hence the network design problem encompasses two interrelated problems: pickup and delivery design (number of depots, service areas of the depots, routes for each depot from and to the postal zones belonging to each depot) and line haul design (number of hubs, routes between depot and hubs and hubs and depots, as well as hub–hub transports). Extensive literature exists for each of these network design problems. Hub-location models were developed especially for the line haul design problem (compare O’Kelly, 1986 ; Kliencewicz, 1991 ; O’Kelly and Miller, 1994 ; Ernst and Krishnamoorthy, 1996 ; Ebery et al., 2000 ). However, these models do not incorporate pickup and delivery design problems. Hub-location models assume that unit shipment from a location to a customer is independent of the route taken to visit the customer; delivery costs depend only on the sum of the product of the unit shipment cost from the location to the customer and the number of the units delivered to that customer. The delivery cost to the customer for LTL (less than a truckload) systems depend on the routing of delivery vehicles (see Tuzun and Burke, 1999 ). The classical location-allocation problem also ignores tours when locating facilities (e.g., more recent papers Bhutta et al., 2003 ; Kalfakakou and Tsouros, 2001 ); however, subsequently this may lead to incorrect pickup and delivery costs (compare Salhi and Rand, 1989 ). For the pickup and delivery design problem, many models and solution concepts can also be found in literature. Especially VRMs were developed ( Golden and Assad, 1988 ). Newer generalizations of VRM are concerned with aspects such as the bi-objective vehicle routing problem with time windows that is to determine the most favourable vehicle routes that minimize the total vehicle travel time and the customer wait time (see Hong and Park, 1999 ), or real-time vehicle routing problems ( Ghiani et al., 2003 ). VRMs have been recognized as an NP-hard problem due to the embedded travelling salesman problem. VRMs are especially important in real-time fleet management. It was long considered impractical to incorporate the vehicle routing problem into the more strategic location problem. Yet why should it be necessary for network design to determine simultaneously the depot and hub locations and the routes? If we consider the core processes in a groupage delivery service with complete geographic coverage, we can derive the types of costs that need to be considered. In addition to the line haul transport costs, these costs include pickup and delivery costs as well as depot and hub costs. Pickup and delivery costs occur between pickup or delivery at the customer and the depot. Line haul transport costs occur between depots, between hubs, or between depots and hubs. Due to the high degree of bundling of parcel streams in line haul transport as well as the associated possibility to utilize larger vehicles, line haul transport costs are correspondingly lower than pickup and delivery costs. The following rough cost distribution applies for a parcel delivery service with complete geographic coverage as a pre-investigation in the context of the case study showed (also compare Salhi and Rand, 1989 ): • Line haul transport costs 15–25% • Pickup and delivery costs 35–60% • Depot operating costs 25–45%