  This paper addresses an extension of the capacitated vehicle routing problem where customer demand is composed of two-dimensional weighted items (2L-CVRP). The objective consists in designing a set of trips minimizing the total transportation cost with a homogenous fleet of vehicles based on a depot node. Items in each vehicle trip must satisfy the two-dimensional orthogonal packing constraints. A GRASP×ELS algorithm is proposed to compute solutions of a simpler problem in which the loading constraints are transformed into resource constrained project scheduling problem (RCPSP) constraints. We denote this relaxed problem RCPSP-CVRP. The optimization framework deals with RCPSP-CVRP and lastly RCPSP-CVRP solutions are transformed into 2L-CVRP solutions by solving a dedicated packing problem. The effectiveness of our approach is demonstrated through computational experiments including both classical CVRP and 2L-CVRP instances. Numerical experiments show that the GRASP×ELS approach outperforms all previously published methods. Keywords Vehicle routing ; GRASP ; Iterated local search ; Evolutionary local search ; VRP ; 2L-CVRP a complete undirected graph V set of n +1 nodes with 0 the depot node c ij cost from node i to j n number of nodes (a node is a customer) N number of vehicles D weight capacity of vehicles W vehicle width L vehicle area m i number of items to deliver at customer i d i total weight of items to service at customer i w ik item width of item k at customer i l ik item length of item k at customer i Framework parameters p number of solutions kept during the grasp process np number of GRASP iterations (number of initial solutions investigated) ns number of ILS iterations nd number of parallel mutation/local search nr maximum number of iterations without improvement per ELS ne number of attempts to generated a initial feasible solution ε a small real number representing the threshold required to continue the RL sequence customer in the giant tour T t a trip n ( t ) number of customers in trip t t =( t 0 , t 1 , …, t n ( t ) , t n ( t ) + 1 ) sequence customers in trip t S a RCPSP-CVRP solution (set of trips) f ( S ) cost of S N ( S ) number of trips in solution S α penalty t ( S ) set of trips of solution S f ( t ) cost of the trip t S ⁎ best RCPSP-CVRP solution found f ⁎ cost of S ⁎ O number of resources i/j activity to schedule d i duration of activity i r ik requirement of activity i for resource k u sink activity s source activity ES i earliest starting time of activity i LS i latest starting time of activity i Split H T = ( X , Y , Z ) auxiliary digraph linked to the giant trip T X set of n+ 1 nodes Y set of arcs in H where arc ( i , j ) represent a trip servicing customers v i+ 1 to v j Z ij trip cost link to the arc ( i , j ) Bin packing W × L bin size w i × l i item size ni set of items i which can be scheduled at position ( x i , y ) x i x-position of item i (either ES i or LS i ) Hash function/map K a huge number used by the hash function h ( t ) hash value for trip t F ( h ( t )) function giving in O(1) the RCPSP feasibility of trip t with hash function h ( t ) 1.1. Capacitated vehicle routing problem Keeping track of VRP development is strongly difficult because node routing problems subject matter transcends several academic disciplines. Lately Eksioglu et al. [1] in 2008 have provided a methodology to classify the literature of the VRP, i.e. a taxonomic framework. Their proposal extends the previous proposal of Current and Marsh [2] in 1993. Additional VRP constraints can be classified into three sets: scenario characteristics, problem physical characteristics and information characteristics. Scenario characteristics encompass, for instance, customer service demand quantity (deterministic, stochastic), load splitting constraints (splitting allowed or not), time windows (soft time windows, strict time windows), time horizon (single period, multi-period) or customer types (linehaul, backhaul, transfer). Problem physical characteristics encompass the number of origin points (single or multiple origins), the time window types (restrictions on customers, on roads), number of vehicles (exactly n vehicles, limited number of vehicle, and unlimited number of vehicles). Information characteristics encompass the evolution of information (static or partially dynamic) or the quality of information (stochastic, deterministic). The capacitated vehicle routing problem (CVRP) is a standard NP-hard node routing problem which received a considerable amount of attention for decades [3] , [4]  and  [5] . The CVRP consists in optimizing the delivery of goods required by a set of customers. It can be fully defined by considering a depot and a set of n customers which correspond to the nodes of a complete graph G =( V ; E ) where V is a set of n+ 1 nodes, 0 being the depot and nodes 1,…, n being the customers. Each edge e ∈ E has a finite cost c e ≥0 and each node v ∈ V −{0} has a demand d v ≥0. A fleet of homogenous vehicles of limited capacity Q is based at the depot. The objective is to design a set of trips of minimal total cost to service all customers. A trip is a cycle performed by one vehicle, starting at the depot, ending at the depot and visiting a subset of nodes. The total load trip is upper bounded by the vehicle capacity Q . Since split deliveries are not allowed, each customer is serviced by one vehicle only. Medium and large scale CVRP instances resolution is limited to metaheuristics as stressed in [6] . 1.2. Capacitated vehicle routing problem with packing: 2L-CVRP The 2L-CVRP is an extension of the CVRP which includes two-dimensional rectangle loading constraints (the 2L constraints). This problem, first introduced in [7] , [8]  and  [9] , can be reduced to the CVRP when dropping the size of the items or when considering 1×1 square items, thus dealing only with their weight. This is strongly relevant to distribution companies since it combines both vehicle routing optimization and two-dimensional items packing. More formally, each vehicle of the homogenous fleet is now defined by a weight capacity D and by a rectangular two-dimensional loading area A = W × L , where W is the vehicle width and L is the vehicle length. The demand of each customer i =1,…, n consists in a set of m i items of total weight d i : each item k =1,…, m i has width w ik and length l ik . Each customer must be serviced by only one vehicle, which is assigned to a single trip. A trip t is a sequence t =( t 0 , t 1 ,…, t n(t) , t n ( t )+1 ) of customers where t 0 = t n ( t ) +1 corresponds to the depot. It must be simultaneously “weight-feasible” and “packing-feasible”. A trip t is stated “weight-feasible” if the total weight does not exceed the vehicle capacity, i.e. ∑ i ∈ t d i ≤ D and it is stated “packing-feasible” if the customer items can be loaded without overlapping into the vehicle and satisfying the classical packing constraints. A set of “weight-feasible” and “packing-feasible” trips defines a solution of the 2L-CVRP.