  Routing problems, such as the traveling salesman problem and the vehicle routing problem, are widely studied both because of their classic academic appeal and their numerous real-life applications. Similarly, the field of multi-objective optimization is attracting more and more attention, notably because it offers new opportunities for defining problems. This article surveys the existing research related to multi-objective optimization in routing problems. It examines routing problems in terms of their definitions, their objectives, and the multi-objective algorithms proposed for solving them. Keywords Combinatorial optimization ; Routing ; Multi-objective programming 1. Introduction This article provides an overview of the research into routing problems with several objectives. By routing problems, we mean any problem that involves of generating a tour, or a collection of tours, on a network, or a subset of a network, given a set of constraints and the need to optimize one or several fixed objective(s). Together, routing problems form a highly-studied family of problems that includes the well-known traveling salesman problem. Although such problems are frequently used to model real cases, they are often set up with the single objective of minimizing the cost of the solution, despite the fact that the majority of the problems encountered in industry, particularly in logistics, are multi-objective in nature. In real-life, for instance, there may be several costs associated with a single tour. Moreover, the objectives may not always be limited to cost. In fact, numerous other aspects, such as balancing of workloads (time, distance …), can be taken into account simply by adding new objectives. A routing problem can be defined in terms of the following components: the network, the demand(s), the fleet, the cost(s), and the objective(s). • The network can be symmetrical, asymmetrical or mixed. It is represented as a graph on which the nodes stand for towns, customers and/or depots, while arcs stand for real links (e.g., roads, pipelines) or symbolic connections. On valuated graphs, a value generally represents the cost of traversing an arc. Time windows associated with nodes or arcs may also be defined in some problems. • The demands can be fixed or stochastic, can be associated with both nodes and arcs, and can be given for one or several product(s). Generally, demands appear in distribution problems, in which a certain amount of a given product must be delivered to certain nodes (i.e., customers) or must travel along a certain arc (i.e., delivery route). Demands are also a part of pick-up and delivery problems, in which demanded goods must first be picked up at a specific location and then be delivered elsewhere. • The fleet generates constraints that affect the tours. A fleet can be heterogeneous or homogeneous. It can be composed of a single vehicle or several vehicles, whose use may, or may not, be limited by capacity, time or distance, for example. In addition, there may be dependencies between vehicles, drivers, products, nodes, and/or arcs. The term fleet does not always refer to a group of vehicles. In fact, in some problems, there are no vehicles at all. However, in this text, the terms vehicle and fleet are used systematically in order to avoid confusion. • The costs are generally fixed for the vehicle and variable for its use, in terms of distance traveled or time used. Costs can also include the service penalties incurred when a customer receives a late or incomplete delivery. Related to costs, profit can also be associated to given nodes and/or arcs with the profit being collected when the node is visited and/or the arc is chosen. • The objectives can be multiple and diverse. The objective function can be computed for a single period or for several periods, though in the latter case, both vehicles and visits must be assigned to the different periods. The most common objectives include minimizing the total distance traveled, the total time required, the total tour cost, and/or the fleet size, and maximizing the quality of the service and/or the profit collected. However, when multiple objectives are identified, the different objectives frequently conflict. For this reason adopting a multi-objective point of view can be advantageous.