Password: The Generalized Vehicle Routing Problem (GVRP) is the problem of designing optimal delivery or collection routes, subject to capacity restrictions, from a given depot to a number of predefined, mutually exclusive and exhaustive clusters. In this paper we describe an efficient transformation of the GVRP into a Capacitated Arc Routing Problem (CARP) for which an exact algorithm and several approximate procedures are reported in literature. It constitutes the only known approach for solving the GVRP. Keywords Generalized vehicle routing problem ; Location-routing ; Arc routing 1. Introduction The well-known Vehicle Routing Problem (VRP) can be defined as the problem of determining optimal delivery or collection routes from a given depot to some geographically dispersed customers subject to operating restrictions. The Generalized Vehicle Routing Problem (GVRP) is an extension of the VRP which can be formally defined as follows. Let G ( V , A ) be a directed graph where V is the set of vertices and A ={( v i , v j ): v i , v j ∈ V , v i ≠ v j } the set of arcs. A nonnegative cost c ij is associated with each arc ( v i , v j ). If c ij = c ji for all v i , v j ∈ V , the problem is described as symmetric and is usually defined on an undirected graph where each pair of opposite arcs is substituted by an edge ( v i , v j ). In what follows, arc costs are supposed to represent the least-cost paths between vertices (or otherwise to satisfy the triangle inequality). Vertex set V is partitioned into m +1 nonempty subsets (or clusters ) C 0 , C 1 ,…, C m . Cluster C 0 has only one vertex v 0 , which represents the depot, while cluster C h ( h =1,…, m ) represents r ( h ) possible locations of a customer having a nonnegative demand d h . In addition, a fleet of homogeneous vehicles, having capacity Q is available at the depot. The GVRP is to find a set of shortest routes starting and ending at the depot, visiting each cluster exactly once such that the sum of the demands of any route does not exceed Q . The GVRP is a location-routing problem ( Laporte, 1988 ) as it combines two kinds of simultaneous decisions: node selection and node sequencing. Several real-world situations can be modeled as a GVRP. The post-box collection problem described in Laporte et al. (1989) becomes an asymmetric GVRP if more than one vehicle is required. Furthermore, the GVRP is able to model the distribution of goods by sea to a number of customers situated in an archipelago as in Venice (Italy), Greece and Croatia. In this application, a number of potential harbours is selected for every island and a fleet of ships is required to visit exactly one harbour for every island. If ∑ h =1,…, m d h ⩽ Q , the GVRP coincides with the Generalized Traveling Salesman Problem (GTSP) whose aim is to determine a least-cost Hamiltonian circuit through the clusters ( Noon and Bean, 1991 , Noon and Bean, 1993 , Fischetti et al., 1996 , Fischetti et al., 1997  and  Laporte et al., 1996 ). In this paper we describe an efficient transformation of the GVRP into a Capacitated Arc Routing Problem (CARP) for which an exact algorithm ( Hirabayashi et al., 1992 ) and several approximate procedures (see Assad and Golden, 1995 ; Eiselt et al., 1995a  and  Eiselt et al., 1995b for a review) are reported in literature. It constitutes the only known approach for solving the GVRP. For the sake of simplicity, the transformation of the GVRP into a CARP will be described for the symmetric case. 2. The transformation each route starts and ends at the depot; 2. each required edge is traversed at least once and is serviced by exactly one vehicle; 3. the total demand serviced by any vehicle does not exceed vehicle capacity Q . In a CARP feasible solution, every vertex is entered by an even number of copies of edges ( Assad and Golden, 1995  and  Eiselt et al., 1995a ). In what follows, this parity condition is formulated, for the sake of simplicity, using the word “edge” instead of “copy of an edge”. Let G R be the subgraph induced by edges in R , V h ( h =1,…, m ) the set of nodes of the h th connected component of G R and V R the set of nodes v i such that an edge ( v i , v j ) exists in R , i.e. Step 2 . Non-required intra-cluster edges are removed. Step 3 . The cost of each inter-cluster edge is increased by M /2, if an endpoint coincides with the depot, or by M otherwise. Step 4 . Strictly positive demands having sum equal to d h are assigned to the edges of the loop corresponding to C h ( h =1,…, m ). As most CARP algorithms require integer demands, vehicle capacity and cluster demands are to be scaled before step 4 is performed. To this purpose, if GVRP demands d h are integer, both d h ( h =1,…, m ) and Q are to be multiplied by max h =1,…, m ⌈ r ( h )/ d h ⌉. The following proposition states that solving the CARP on the transformed graph provides the optimal GVRP solution ( Fig. 1 ).