Password: The distribution of finished products from depots to customers is a practical and challenging problem in logistics management. Better routing and scheduling decisions can result in higher level of customer satisfaction because more customers can be served in a shorter time. The distribution problem is generally formulated as the vehicle routing problem (VRP). Nevertheless, there is a rigid assumption that there is only one depot. In cases, for instance, where a logistics company has more than one depot, the VRP is not suitable. To resolve this limitation, this paper focuses on the VRP with multiple depots, or multi-depot VRP (MDVRP). The MDVRP is NP-hard, which means that an efficient algorithm for solving the problem to optimality is unavailable. To deal with the problem efficiently, two hybrid genetic algorithms (HGAs) are developed in this paper. The major difference between the HGAs is that the initial solutions are generated randomly in HGA1. The Clarke and Wright saving method and the nearest neighbor heuristic are incorporated into HGA2 for the initialization procedure. A computational study is carried out to compare the algorithms with different problem sizes. It is proved that the performance of HGA2 is superior to that of HGA1 in terms of the total delivery time. Keywords Logistics ; Distribution management ; Vehicle routing problem ; Multiple depots ; Hybrid genetic algorithm 1. Introduction The vehicle routing problem (VRP) has been studied extensively because it is found to be widely applicable to many real-world situations, including the logistics distribution problem. The VRP is easy to describe but difficult to solve. Consider a company has a depot with known location and unlimited capacity, a fleet of vehicles with known capacity, and a set of customers with known demand and location. Generally, the total demand of the customers exceeds the capacity of a vehicle. Therefore, more than one vehicle is used to distribute the products from the depot to the customers. In the VRP, each vehicle is referred to as a route, and a customer is served by a vehicle or served in one route only. Each route starts and finishes at the depot. The decision makers of the company need to determine which customers are served by which vehicles or routes, that is, the routing problem, and also need to consider which customer is served first, second, and so on in each route, that is, the scheduling problem. The objective of the VRP is to determine the total distance or time spent in serving all customers. Undoubtedly, better routing and scheduling can achieve higher level of customer satisfaction because more customers are served in a shorter time. The VRP is similar to the well-known traveling salesman problem (TSP), except that there is no limitation on the capacity of the vehicle used in the TSP so that the customers can be served in a single route. In other words, the TSP considers the scheduling problem merely, and is therefore simpler than the VRP, which focuses on both scheduling and routing problems. The VRP has extensive variants, including the PVRP—periodic VRP in which the customers are served in a period of time rather than one day ( Angelelli and Speranza, 2002 ), the VRPPD—VRP with pickup and delivery in which the customers may both receive and send products ( Mosheiov, 1998 ), the VRPTW—VRP with time windows in which the vehicles must arrive at the customers before the latest arrival time, while arriving before the earliest arrival time results in waiting ( Tan et al., 2001 ), and so on. A common point of the above versions is that they are all based on one depot. Thus, they can be regarded as single-depot VRPs. Although the single-depot VRPs have attracted so much attention, they are not suitable for some cases where a company has more than one depot. Due to this reason, this paper focuses on the multi-depot VRP (MDVRP) in which more than one depot is considered. Because there are additional depots for storing the products, the decision makers also have to determine which customers are served by which depots, that is, the grouping problem prior to the routing and scheduling problems. Obviously, this type of problem is more challenging and sophisticated than the single-depot VRPs. Besides, the MDVRP is NP-hard, which means that an efficient algorithm for solving the problem to optimality is unavailable. Therefore, solving the problem by an exact algorithm is time-consuming and computationally intractable. To deal with the problem efficiently and effectively, two hybrid genetic algorithms (HGAs) are developed in this paper. This paper is organized as follows. Section 2 surveys on the relevant literature. Section 3 describes the hierarchy of decisions in the MDVRP. Section 4 discusses the principles of the algorithms used to solve the MDVRP. Section 5 compares the performance of the algorithms. Finally, Section 6 concludes the paper. 2. Literature review Comparatively, the number of research projects on the MDVRP is fewer. Sumichrast and Markham (1995) formulated the problem of transporting raw materials from multiple sources, or depots, to a set of plants as in the MDVRP. A heuristic approach based on the Clarke and Wright saving method ( Clarke and Wright, 1964 ) was developed, and its performance was evaluated by comparing with the lower bound. Renaud et al. (1996) adopted a heuristic method to deal with the MDVRP. The method first constructed an initial feasible solution, followed by an improvement process using the tabu search (TS). Salhi and Sari (1997) proposed a heuristic method with three levels to solve the MDVRP. The first level was the construction of an initial feasible solution. The second and the third levels were to improve the routes in each depot, that is, intra-depot and the routes in all depots, that is, inter-depot, respectively. Hadjiconstantinou and Baldacci (1998) formulated the problem of providing maintenance services to a set of customers as the multi-depot PVRP (MDPVRP). The authors decomposed the MDPVRP into four levels, and then used a heuristic method to solve the problem. The first level was to assign which depots serve which customers. The second level was to solve a PVRP for each depot. At the third level, a classical VRP for each depot for each day of the given period was solved. At the last level, a classical TSP for each route was tackled. Su (1999) proposed a dynamic vehicle control and scheduling system to solve the MDVRP. All the control decisions were made according to the real time status of the system, such as the location, quantity, and due date of the demand. Wu et al. (2002) studied the multi-depot location-routing problem (MDLRP), which is an extension of the MDVRP. The MDLRP was decomposed into the location-allocation problem and the VRP, and then they were solved sequentially and iteratively using the simulated annealing (SA). The major difference between the MDLRP and the MDVRP is that the former also determined the number and locations of depots. Giosa et al. (2002) investigated the multi-depot VRPTW (MDVRPTW), which is also an extension of the MDVRP. The authors designed and compared six heuristics for assigning the customers to depots while using the same VRP heuristic for each depot. Similar to Wu et al. (2002) , Wasner and Zäpfel (2004) also studied the MDLRP for planning of parcel service. A heuristic method based on the local search with a series of feedback loops was developed to solve the problem separately. Nagy and Salhi (2005) presented a number of heuristic methods to solve the single-depot VRPPD. The methods can be modified to tackle the multi-depot VRPPD (MDVRPPD). Due to the complexity of the problem, solving the MDVRP to optimality is extremely time-consuming. To tackle the problem efficiently, all previous researchers preferred heuristic methods to exact algorithms. According to the above literature review, there are two common points among these proposed methodologies. First, the MDVRP was decomposed, and then the subproblems were solved sequentially and iteratively. Second, the heuristic methods consisted of two mechanisms: construction and improvement. The first mechanism generated initial feasible solutions, whereas the second mechanism modified the existing solutions to yield better results. However, it is found that none of the researchers have applied the HGA to solve the MDVRP. This is our primary motivation for writing this paper. 3. Multi-depot vehicle routing problem Consider a distribution company with multiple depots. The number and locations of the depots are predetermined. Each depot is large enough to store all the products ordered by the customers. A fleet of vehicles with limited capacity is used to transport the products from depots to customers. Each vehicle starts and finishes at the same depot. The location and demand of each customer is also known in advance. Each customer is visited by a vehicle exactly once. This practical distribution problem can be regarded as the MDVRP, in which there are three decisions as shown in Fig. 1 . The decision makers first need to cluster a set of customers to be served by the same depot, that is, the grouping problem. They then have to assign customers of the same depot to several routes so that the vehicle capacity constraint is not violated. At last, the decision on delivery sequence of each route is made. Generally, the objective of the MDVRP is to minimize the total delivery distance or time spent in serving all customers. Shorter delivery time results in higher level of customer satisfaction. Besides, the objective can also be the minimization of the number of vehicles needed. Fewer vehicles imply that the total operation cost is reduced. No matter which type of objectives is defined, the ultimate goal of the MDVRP is to increase the efficiency of the delivery.