Password: The Vehicle Routing Problem with Backhauls is a generalization of the ordinary capacitated vehicle routing problem where goods are delivered from the depot to the linehaul customers, and additional goods are brought back to the depot from the backhaul customers. Numerous ways of modeling the backhaul constraints have been proposed in the literature, each imposing different restrictions on the handling of backhaul customers. A survey of these models is presented, and a unified model is developed that is capable of handling most variants of the problem from the literature. The unified model can be seen as a Rich Pickup and Delivery Problem with Time Windows, which can be solved through an improved version of the large neighborhood search heuristic proposed by Ropke and Pisinger [An adaptive large neighborhood search heuristic for the pickup and delivery problem with time windows, Technical Report, DIKU, University of Copenhagen, 2004]. The results obtained in this way are comparable to or improve on similar results found by state of the art heuristics for the various variants of the problem. The heuristic has been tested on 338 problems from the literature and it has improved the best known solution for 227 of these. An additional benefit of the unified modeling and solution method is that it allows the dispatcher to mix various variants of the Vehicle Routing Problem with Backhauls for the individual customers or vehicles. Keywords Metaheuristics ; Vehicle routing problems ; Large neighborhood search 1. Introduction In the classical Capacitated Vehicle Routing Problem (CVRP) we have to deliver goods from a depot to a set of customers, using a set of identical vehicles. Each customer demands a certain quantity of goods and the vehicles have a limited capacity. Our task is to construct routes starting and ending at the depot that minimize the total travel distance and that obey the capacity of the vehicles. The problems that need to be solved in real-life situations are usually much more complicated. One complication that arises in practice is that goods not only need to be brought from the depot to the customers, but also must be picked up at a number of customers and brought back to the depot. A simple way of handling such problems is to solve two independent CVRPs. One for the delivery ( linehaul ) customers and one for the pickup ( backhaul ) customers, such that some vehicles would be designated to linehaul customers and others to backhaul customers. This approach is not likely to create high-quality solutions though––it seems more profitable to serve both pickup and delivery customers using the same vehicles. The Vehicle Routing Problem with Backhauls (VRPB) models problems with both pickup and delivery customers in the same route. Applications of VRPB can be found in the distribution of groceries. Groceries are delivered to supermarkets and grocery stores from a central distribution center and groceries are picked up at production sites and brought to the distribution center. Another application is the handling of returnable bottles, where full bottles are brought to customers and empty bottles are brought back to breweries to be recycled. Such applications are likely to become more common in the future due to the increased awareness of environmental issues. It is important to develop fast and robust algorithms for real-life transportation problems, which are able to handle various side constraints that appear in practice. The general trend in the transportation sector is that transportation companies are merging to larger units which can provide a large number of delivery services. In order to get the most possible benefit from the vehicle fleet, it can be attractive to service conceptually different transportation tasks by the same fleet, thus models are needed that can handle all additional constraints associated with a transportation task. Cordeau et al. [6] for example provide a unified approach for several Vehicle Routing Problems with Time Windows. The present paper considerably extends the expressibility of the model, by also allowing pickup and delivery requests, precedence constraints, etc. This allows us to formulate the six most common variants of vehicle routing problems with backhauls within the framework, and to find high-quality heuristic solutions that are comparable to or improve on similar results for specialized algorithms. The underlying problem of all of the problems we consider is the Pickup and Delivery Problem with Time Windows (PDPTW), which we will describe in Section 2 . A survey of the six most common variants of vehicle routing problems with backhauls––and additional, less frequently used models––is given in Section 3 . The subsequent sections present the heuristic algorithm proposed in this paper, which is outlined in Fig. 1 . Some of the problem types we wish to solve are illustrated at the top of the figure. To solve an instance of one of these problem types, we transform it to an instance of the Rich Pickup and Delivery Problem with Time Windows , as illustrated by the arrows from the top row to the next row. Transformations are discussed in Section 4 . The PDPTW instance is solved by a heuristic which will be presented in Section 5 ; this produces a PDPTW solution that finally is interpreted as a solution to the original problem. This solution framework has been tested on 338 benchmarks problems proposed in the literature. The results of this computational test are reported in Section 6 . The paper is finally concluded in Section 7 . Fig. 1.  Solution framework: as described in Section 3 the algorithm accepts as input variants of the Vehicle Routing Problem with Backhauls, including: VRPB, MVRPB, MDMVRPB, VRPBTW, MVRPBTW and VRPSDP. All of the problems are transformed to a Rich Pickup and Delivery Problem with Time Windows, which is solved heuristically through a Large Neighborhood Search algorithm. The last step of the algorithm transforms the obtained solution back to the original problem. The framework is not limited to backhaul models, but can be used to solve other types of vehicle routing problems, such as the vehicle routing problem with time windows or the capacitated vehicle routing problem. 2. The Pickup and Delivery Problem with Time Windows (PDPTW) Before starting to discuss the various variants of the VRPB we introduce the Rich Pickup and Delivery Problem with Time Windows (Rich PDPTW). All considered variants of the VRPB can be seen as extensions of the PDPTW. IP models of the PDPTW can be found in Desaulniers et al. [8] and Sigurd et al. [35] , for our purpose we will only give a verbal description of our problem which differs slightly from the problems in the afore-mentioned papers. In the Rich PDPTW we have n requests and m vehicles . A request i  ∈ {1, … ,  n } consists of picking up a quantity l i of goods at one location and delivering it to another location. With each request is associated a pickup time window , a delivery time window , and two service times   s i p and s i d indicating how long the pickup and delivery operations take to perform. A vehicle is allowed to arrive at a location before the start of the time window, in which case it will have to wait before starting the corresponding operation. A vehicle may never arrive at a location after the end of the time window. Each request furthermore has an associated pickup precedence number , and a delivery precedence number . Each vehicle must visit the locations in non-decreasing order of precedence number (see e.g. Sigurd et al. [35] for various applications of precedence constraints).