Many mathematical models have been presented for the vehicle routing problem (VRP) in research papers. Most of them assume that the travel speeds are constant, and ignore the fact that travel speeds can change throughout the day. In this research, based on time-dependent travel speeds, an optimization method is proposed for solving goods assignment and vehicle routing problems. Moreover, in the optimization method, the travel time calculation satisfies the “non-passing” property, which is ignored in most research papers. A real case of a 3C warehousing company and a larger simulated problem are introduced to illustrate the proposed method. The results show that the proposed method is efficient and effective in solving problems. Keywords Tabu search ; Time-dependent travel speed ; Vehicle routing problem 1. Introduction Goods assignment and routing planning for a fleet of vehicles to satisfy the demand of all retail stores is a very important problem for distribution centers. When all information about demand details from each retail store have been received, the distribution center has to decide which goods for which retail stores should be transported by the same vehicle, and how these vehicles should be routed to minimize the total transportation distance or transportation cost. This kind of problem is called the vehicle routing problem (VRP). VRP can be described as a general version of the well-known traveling salesman problem (TSP) ( Woensel, Kerbache, Peremans, & Vandaele, 2007 ). When the fleet size is equal to one and vehicle capacity can be assumed infinite, VRP can be considered as TSP ( Ichoua, Gendreau, & Potvin, 2003 ). The VRP is defined as follows: find a set of routes of minimum length (or travel time) for a fleet of vehicles initially located at a distribution center, such that the retail stores’ demands are satisfied and the loading limitations of the vehicles are not exceeded ( Chen, Hsueh, & Chang, 2006 ). Many models proposed in the literature on VRP assume that the travel speeds (or times) between relevant locations (distribution centers and retail stores) are constant throughout the day ( Ichoua et al., 2003 ). This assumption may be far from the reality, in particular for urban areas where travel speeds (or times) typically vary during the day due to congestion during the rush hours ( Fleischmann, Gietz, & Gnutzmann, 2004 ). In some practical cases, distribution centers have a strategy to transport goods late at night or early in the morning when traffic is low and customers are few. However, there are still many retail stores that only open when the number of customers is potentially high, as they have to consider their operating costs. The travel speeds (or times) may then be different when these stores are open. Research relating to time-dependent travel speeds is rare in the literature. Beasley (1981) adapted the savings algorithm to solve the problem in the case where two periods of the day with different travel times are considered. Hill and Benton (1992) proposed a parsimonious model for estimating the average travel speed when the time-dependent VRP (TDVRP) is considered. They also proposed a simple greedy heuristic for solving a TDVRP which contains 210 locations and 96 time intervals. Malandrki and Daskin (1992) presented mixed integer linear programming formulations of the TDTSP and the TDVRP that treat the travel time functions as step functions. Based on a nearest-neighbor heuristic, several simple heuristic algorithms are given for solving TDTSP and TDVRP. Malandraki and Dial (1996) presented a restricted dynamic programming heuristic algorithm for TDTSP with a given starting time from the depot. The heuristic is based on the exact dynamic programming algorithm for the TSP but can solve much larger problems than the exact algorithm. Park (2000) considered bi-criteria vehicle scheduling, with time and area-dependent travel speeds. Two conflicting objectives (minimization of total vehicle operation time and minimization of total weighted tardiness) were treated explicitly. A mixed integer linear programming formulation was constructed for the problem and a heuristic called the bi-criteria-saving algorithm was presented to solve it. Chen et al. (2006) proposed and developed a heuristic that included methods for route construction and improvement to solve the real-time TDVRP which was formulated as a series of mixed integer programming models. The major weakness of these models is that they do not satisfy the property called “non-passing” ( Fleischmann et al., 2004 ) which is also called “first-in-first-out” (FIFO) ( Ichoua et al., 2003 ). A model satisfies the non-passing property when a vehicle moves from a retail store to another specific destination retail store directly, then an earlier departure time must be coupled with an earlier arrival time, and vice versa. Most research related to time-dependent travel times assume that travel times are constant and depend on departure time. The result is that the non-passing condition is not satisfied. For example, in Fig. 1 the travel time between two retail stores in the first 2 h is 60 min, and the travel time becomes 20 min in the third and fourth hours. If a vehicle departs at 1:45, it will consequently arrive at 2:45. However, if a vehicle departs at 2:15, the corresponding arrival time is 2:35. The unreasonable “passing” situation has occurred. Fig. 1.  Fleischmann et al. (2004) proposed a smoothed travel time function for calculating arrival time when given a departure time. For example, in Fig. 2 the travel times between different time intervals decrease (or increase) by linear functions. However, the non-passing property is only satisfied when the slopes of the linear functions are bigger than −1. As shown in Fig. 2 the slope of the linear function between first and second time intervals is −1. Every vehicle departing during this period (from the 15th to the 25th minute) will arrive at the same time. On the other hand, the slope of the linear function between second and third time intervals is −1.5. If a vehicle departs at the 35th minute, the arrival time will be the 65th minute. However, if a vehicle departs at the 45th minute the corresponding arrival time will be the 60th minute, which is earlier than the vehicle that departed at the 35th minute. Thus the non-passing property is violated. Fig. 2. 