Password: This paper considers a transportation problem for moving empty or laden containers for a logistic company. Owing to the limited resource of its vehicles (trucks and trailers), the company often needs to sub-contract certain job orders to outsourced companies. A model for this truck and trailer vehicle routing problem (TTVRP) is first constructed in the paper. The solution to the TTVRP consists of finding a complete routing schedule for serving the jobs with minimum routing distance and number of trucks, subject to a number of constraints such as time windows and availability of trailers. To solve such a multi-objective and multi-modal combinatorial optimization problem, a hybrid multi-objective evolutionary algorithm (HMOEA) featured with specialized genetic operators, variable-length representation and local search heuristic is applied to find the Pareto optimal routing solutions for the TTVRP. Detailed analysis is performed to extract useful decision-making information from the multi-objective optimization results as well as to examine the correlations among different variables, such as the number of trucks and trailers, the trailer exchange points, and the utilization of trucks in the routing solutions. It has been shown that the HMOEA is effective in solving multi-objective combinatorial optimization problems, such as finding useful trade-off solutions for the TTVRP routing problem. Keywords Vehicle routing ; Evolutionary algorithms ; Multi-objective optimization 1. Introduction 1.1. The trucks and trailers vehicle routing problem Singapore ranks among the top international maritime centers of the world. Its sheltered and deep-water harbor lies strategically at the crossroads of major sea routes in South-east Asia. It is the focal point for some 400 shipping lines with links to more than 740 ports worldwide. The Republic’s standing as an international maritime centre rests on its port, which is one of the busiest in the world in terms of container throughput. In 2002, the port handled a total of 16.94 million 20-foot equivalent units (TEUs) ( Maritime, 2002 ). In order to support the port activities in lieu with the extremely high throughput at the port, container related logistic services are very prosperous in Singapore. A general model for vehicle capacity planning system (VCPS) consisting of a number of job orders to be served by trucks and trailers daily was constructed for a logistic company that provides transportation services for container movements within the country ( Lee et al., 2003 ). Due to the limited capacity of vehicles owned by the company, engineers in the company have to decide whether to assign the job orders of container movements to its internal fleet of vehicles or to outsource the jobs to other companies daily. The Tabu search meta-heuristic was applied to find a solution for the VCPS problem, where some new rules on how to assign jobs for outsourcing were derived and shown to be about 8% better than existing rules adopted by the company ( Lee et al., 2003 ). By analyzing different kinds of job orders received from the company, this paper presents a transportation solution for trucks and trailers vehicle routing problem (TTVRP) containing multiple objectives and constraints, which is extended from the VCPS model with detail maneuver of trailers in a routing plan. In TTVRP, the trailers are resources with certain limitations similar to real world scenarios and the allocation of trailers in different locations could affect the routing plans. The TTVRP is a difficult problem which involves many intricate factors such as time window constraints and availability of trailers. The number of trucks in a fleet regulates the maximum number of jobs that can be handled internally within a certain period of time and all jobs must be serviced within a given time window. Instead of handling jobs by the internal fleet of trucks, the jobs can also be considered for outsourcing, if necessary. The routing plan in TTVRP also needs to determine the number of trailer exchange points (TEPs) that are distributed in the region where different types of trailers can be found. Besides, there are a wide variety of job orders that may have diverse requirements for the types of the trailers, time window constraints as well as locations of the source and destination. The transportation solution to TTVRP contains useful decision-making information, such as the best fleet size to accommodate a variety of job orders and the trend for different number of trailers available at TEPs, which could be utilized by the management to visualize the complex correlations among different variables in the routing problem. Dynamic resource management is an essential component in a logistic company. Long-term planning in resource management (such as the number of vehicles) is rather tedious especially when the business is in a dynamic environment. In order to maintain efficiency, minimizing the cost and investment and maximizing quality of service, long-term resource planning and day-to-day operations are two crucial factors to ensure an organization’s success. In this paper, various test cases for the TTVRP model are generated with random variables simulating the long-term operation of business activities. The management can thus formulate the planning for certain variables, such as the number of trucks (long-term capital cost) so that the day-to-day operational cost could be kept at the minimum. 1.2. Background on vehicle routing problems Vehicle routing problem (VRP) is a generic name referred to a class of combinatorial problem in which customers are to be served by a number of vehicles. Some famous models in literature for vehicle routing problems include Dantzig and Ramser, 1959 , Gendreau et al., 1999a , Laporte et al., 2002 , Belenguer et al., 2000 , Yang et al., 2000 , Kenyon and Morton, 2003 , Ichoua et al., 2003 , Ghiani and Improta, 2000 , Swihart and Papastavrou, 1999 , Salhi and Sari, 1997  and  Min et al., 1998 and Wu et al. (2002) . Among these models, there are three types of vehicle routing problems closely related to the TTVRP model presented in this paper, i.e., vehicle routing problem with time windows (VRPTW), vehicle scheduling problem (VSP) and truck and trailer routing problem (TTRP). The vehicle routing problem with time windows (VRPTW) diverts from the famous vehicle routing problem (VRP). In this problem, a set of vehicles with limited capacity is to be routed from a central depot to a set of geographically dispersed customers with known demands and predefined time window. The time window can be specified in terms of single-sided or double-sided window. In single-sided time window, the pickup points usually specify the deadlines by which they must be serviced. In double-sided time window, however, both the earliest and the latest service times are imposed by the nodes. A vehicle arriving earlier than the earliest service time of a node will incur waiting time. This penalizes the transport management in either the direct waiting cost or the increased number of vehicles, since a vehicle can only service fewer nodes if the waiting time is longer. Some recent publications of VRPTW can be found in Bräysy, 2003 , Breedam, 2001 , Caseau and Laburthe, 1999 , Dullaert, 2000 , Gezdur and Türkay, 2002 , Ioannou et al., 2001 , Shaw, 1998 , Li and Lim, 2002 , Chavalitwongse et al., 2003  and  Bent and Van Hentenryck, 2001 and Berger et al. (2001) . Surveys about VRPTW can be found in Desrosier et al., 1995 , Desrochers et al., 1992 , Golden and Assad, 1988 , Solomon, 1987 , Crainic and Laporte, 1998 , Kilby et al., 2000  and  Toth and Vigo, 2002 , Bräysy and Gendreau, 2001a  and  Bräysy and Gendreau, 2001b etc. In contrast to the TTVRP, the VRPTW neither have any limitation on resources of trailers nor the outsourcing of jobs to external companies. The vehicle scheduling problem (VSP) ( Baita et al., 2000 , Brandão and Mercer, 1997 , Pretolani, 2000 , Boland et al., 2000 , Dror, 2000  and  Hertz and Mittaz, 2001 ) assumed that the routing to different sites can be completed with multiple trips. Each trip consists of a pair of specified source and destination, each one defined by the starting and ending times. The objective is to minimize the number of vehicles and the cost function based upon deadheading trips (gas, driver etc) and idling time for the vehicle. The constraints for this model include the traveling distance and time for normal service and refueling as well as the restriction that certain tasks can only be handled by specified type of vehicles. In contrast to vehicle routing problem, one customer may be visited more than once or not at all, which is solely depending on the trips data. Although trips in VSP may be analogous to the concept of a job in TTVRP, the VSP does not include the complexity of trailer type constraints. Chao (2002) presented the problem of TTRP (a variant of VRP), which considers the fleet size of trucks and trailers in the model. In order to provide service to different categories of customers, there are three types of routes in a solution: (1) route that a truck travels alone; (2) route that a truck and trailer are required; (3) route that trailer is only required at certain sub-tour. The objective is to minimize the total traveling distance and the cost incurred by the fleet. Unlike TTRP, the TTVRP requires the trucks to visit trailer exchange points for picking up the correct trailer types depending on the jobs to be serviced. Besides, jobs that are not routed by self-fleets in TTVRP can be outsourced to external companies.