In this paper we present a formulation for the dynamic vehicle routing problem with time-dependent travel times. We also present a genetic algorithm to solve the problem. The problem is a pick-up or delivery vehicle routing problem with soft time windows in which we consider multiple vehicles with different capacities, real-time service requests, and real-time variations in travel times between demand nodes. The performance of the genetic algorithm is evaluated by comparing its results with exact solutions and lower bounds for randomly generated test problems. For small size problems with up to 10 demands, the genetic algorithm provides almost the same results as the exact solutions, while its computation time is less than 10% of the time required to produce the exact solutions. For the problems with 30 demand nodes, the genetic algorithm results have less than 8% gap with lower bounds. This research also shows that as the uncertainty in the travel time information increases, a dynamic routing strategy that takes the real-time traffic information into account becomes increasingly superior to a static one. This is clear when we compare the static and dynamic routing strategies in problem scenarios that have different levels of uncertainty in travel time information. In additional tests on a simulated network, the proposed algorithm works well in dealing with situations in which accidents cause significant congestion in some part of the transportation network. Keywords Vehicle routing ; Time dependent ; Travel time ; Genetic algorithm ; Optimization ; Network 1. Introduction Travel times in urban areas fluctuate due to a variety of factors, such as accidents, traffic conditions and weather conditions. Ignoring these travel time variations when developing route plans for pick-up and/or delivery vehicles can result in route plans that direct the vehicles into congested urban traffic conditions. Due to these travel time variations, in some cases the vehicles waste valuable time in traffic jams and customers have to wait unreasonably long without having any reliable information about the actual arrival times of vehicles. In these circumstances, it becomes difficult to satisfy the time windows during which the demand nodes must be visited. In addition, insertion of new demands for pick-up that arise after completion of route planning, in the planned vehicle routes in real time, may result in significant savings. Considering time-dependent travel times as well as information regarding demands that arise in real time in solving vehicle routing problems can reduce the costs of ignoring the changing environment. While considerable research has been devoted to the general traveling salesman problem and vehicle routing problem, research in time-dependent vehicle routing problem is sparse. The existing literature in dynamic vehicle routing problem is focused on dynamic traveling salesman problem [1] , [2]  and  [3] , dynamic traveling repairman problem [2] , [4]  and  [5] , dynamic dial-a-ride problem [1] , [6]  and  [7] , and dynamic vehicle allocation problem [8] , [9] , [10] , [11] , [12]  and  [13] , Bowman [14] , Picard and Queyranne [15] , Lucena [16] , Malandraki and Daskin [17] , Hill and Benton [18] , Malandraki and Dial [19] , and Ichoua et al. [20] examined the time-dependent vehicle routing problem. The most similar papers are Malandraki and Daskin [17] and 1996, Hill and Benton [18] , Malandraki and Dial [19] , and Ichoua et al. [20] . The major weakness of these papers is that they cannot deal with “first-in-first-out” (FIFO) property. In these papers the planning period is divided into very few intervals and travel time is considered a step function as shown in Fig. 1 . In this case, it is possible that a vehicle that departs at time d can arrive earlier than a vehicle that departs earlier at time c . Because any departure between a and b will arrive at the destination later than any departure at time b , all departures have to wait until time b . This is not a realistic situation and implies that real-world link travel times cannot be represented by a step function. Fig. 1.  Ichoua et al. [20] proposes a solution methodology to solve time-dependent vehicle routing problems with time windows using Tabu search, which satisfies the FIFO assumption. This paper is very similar to ours in terms of methodology. Experimental results show that the time-dependent model provides significant improvements when results from the time-dependent speed model and the constant speed model are compared. Ichoua et al. divide the planning horizon into three time periods and did not deal with a continuous travel time function. They do not discuss calculation times and the error ratios that depend on the number of time periods in the calculation. Moreover, no performance test for the time-dependent speed model itself is provided. The formulation presented in this paper treats the travel time as a continuous function as shown in Fig. 2 and, therefore, can accept any kind of travel time variation. Jung and Haghani [21] originally presented this formulation and proposed a genetic algorithm to solve the problem. In this paper while we review the formulation and briefly discuss the solution approach, the main focus is on the development of the lower-bound for the solution and presentation of experimental results and the results of a case study that was conducted on a relatively large network using computer simulation. The genetic algorithm solution approach can deal with a continuous travel time function very easily. While other approaches were considered as possible methods for solving the problem, a genetic algorithm was preferred because of its significant advantage in dealing with complex functions that can be embedded in the model, without any increase in the computation time. The major contribution of our research is using continuous travel time information and removing waiting time for the FIFO constraints. Additionally, the proposed algorithm can be used at any time in a day to adjust the route to accept the new demands and changing traffic condition. Fig. 2. 