Password: In the open vehicle routing problem (OVRP), the objective is to minimise the number of vehicles and then minimise the total distance (or time) travelled. Each route starts at the depot and ends at a customer, visiting a number of customers, each once, en route, without returning to the depot. The demand of each customer must be completely fulfilled by a single vehicle. The total demand serviced by each vehicle must not exceed vehicle capacity. Additionally, in one variant of the problem, the travel time of each vehicle should not exceed an upper limit. An effective variable neighbourhood search (VNS) heuristic for this problem is proposed. The neighbourhoods are based on reversing segments of routes (sub-routes) and exchanging segments between routes. Computational results on sixteen standard benchmark problem instances show that the proposed VNS is comparable in terms of solution quality to the best performing published heuristics. Keywords Variable neighbourhood search ; Vehicle routing ; Metaheuristics 1. Introduction Distribution of goods is an important operational task faced continually by many enterprises. One problem that arises in this context is the open vehicle routing problem (OVRP), which is one of defining the best routes for a fleet of vehicles that must service a set of customers; the demand and geographical location of each of whom are known. Each route starts at the depot and ends at a customer, visiting a number of customers, each once, en route, without returning to the depot. All vehicles have the same capacity. Each customer must be visited by one, and only one, of the vehicles and its demand must be completely fulfilled. The total demand of all the customers on a route must not exceed vehicle capacity. In one variant of the problem, there is the additional constraint that the travel time of each vehicle should not exceed a given limit, which is defined by driver legal travel time. The objective is to minimise the number of vehicles and for that number of vehicles, to minimise the total distance (or time) travelled by the vehicles. This implies that the cost of an additional vehicle is larger than any savings that may be achieved by reduction of total travel time. In practice, the problem arises when, as is increasingly the case, the vehicle fleet is hired, or when distribution is entrusted to a third party; in which case the vehicles are not required to return to the depot and the service is charged for by both the number of vehicles and the total distance covered. Clearly, the practical importance of the problem stems from the fact that the associated operational costs are likely to constitute a significant share of overall operational expenses. From the point of view of graph theory, the difference between the OVRP and the classical vehicle routing problem (VRP) is that a solution of the former consists of a set of Hamiltonian paths, rather than Hamiltonian cycles. The problem of finding the best Hamiltonian path for each set of customers once they are assigned to a vehicle is NP-hard [21] . Hence OVRP is also NP-hard [1] . The VRP has been studied extensively, but few works address the OVRP. Brandão [1] observes that Schrage was the first to raise the problem in an article dedicated to the description of realistic routing problems [20] . However, the earliest work that addressed solving the OVRP seems to be that of Sariklis and Powell [19] , who do not impose a maximum route length. Their proposed algorithm has two phases. In the first, customers are assigned to clusters, taking into account the capacity constraint, while attempting to create the minimum number of clusters, i.e., use the minimum number of vehicles. Total travel cost is then reduced by applying some given rules for moving customers among clusters. In the second phase, a minimum spanning tree is created for each cluster, which is then transformed, through a set of operations, into a, hopefully, short open route. Employing several features from previous tabu search implementations for the classical VRP [11]  and  [12] , Brandão [1] proposes a tabu search, in which the neighbourhood structure is defined by insertions and swaps between different routes. Infeasibilities in intermediate solutions are managed through penalising the objective function by two penalty terms, one for capacity violation and the other for route length violation. Fu et al. [9]  and  [10] also offer a tabu search algorithm, in which the initial solution is provided by a ‘farthest first heuristic’ and moves are based on the two-interchange generation mechanism, but with a combination of vertex reassignment, vertex swap, 2-opt and ‘tails’ swap, within the same route or between two routes. Tarantilis et al. [22] address a variant of the problem in which the objective is to minimise the total distance covered, without attempting directly to minimise the number of vehicles and without imposing an upper limit on route length. Their solution algorithm is a single-parameter metaheuristic method that exploits a list of threshold values to guide intelligently a local search, which is based on a variety of edge and node exchanges. In a more recent work, Li et al. [15] develop a variant of record-to-record travel algorithm for the standard vehicle routing problem to handle open routes. Also, Pisinger and Ropke [17] offer an adaptive large neighbourhood search algorithm, in which solutions are generated by a destruct-and-repair procedure. For example, customers can be removed at random from the solution and then reinserted in the cheapest possible route. Various removal and insertion heuristics can be used to diversify and intensify the search. Moving from one solution to the next is carried out within a simulated annealing framework. In this work, we present an effective variable neighbourhood scheme (VNS) for solving both variants of OVRP; with and without an upper limit on route length. It is worth noting that VNS has been applied to various other vehicle routing problems [2] , [4] , [14]  and  [18] .