  This paper examines a practical transportation model known as the open vehicle routing problem (OVRP). OVRP aims at designing the minimum cost set of routes originating from a central depot for satisfying customer demand. Vehicles do not need to return to the depot after completing their delivery services. In methodological terms, we propose an innovative local search metaheuristic which examines wide solution neighborhoods. To explore these wide neighborhoods within reasonable computational effort, local search moves are statically encoded into static move descriptor (SMD) entities. When a local search operator is applied to the candidate solution, only a limited solution part is modified. Therefore, to explore the next neighborhood only the tentative moves that refer to this affected solution part have to be re-evaluated, or in other words, only a subset of the SMD instances has to be updated, according to the modified solution state. The conducted search is efficiently performed by storing the SMD entities in Fibonacci heaps, which are special priority queue structures offering fast minimum retrievals, insertions and deletions. To diversify the search, we employ a tabu scheme and a penalization strategy, both compatible with the SMD design. The proposed metaheuristic was tested on well-known OVRP instances, for two objective configurations. The first one primarily aims at minimizing the number of routes and secondarily minimizing the routing cost, whereas the second one only aims at minimizing the cost of the generated route set. For both configurations, it managed to produce fine results improving several previously best-known solutions. Keywords Open vehicle routing ; Metaheuristics ; Tabu search ; Computational complexity 1. Introduction The distribution of goods is an important operational process which lies at the heart of modern business activity, and constitutes a significant part of the overall running costs of a company. For this reason, great research interest has been focused on the development of distribution systems, and on the design of solution approaches for effectively managing real-life logistics operations. The most central and widely studied transportation model is the capacitated vehicle routing problem (CVRP), which as Li et al. [1] suggest is easy to state and difficult to solve. In specific, the CVRP model consists of a customer population with deterministic demands, and a central depot which acts as the base of a homogeneous fleet of vehicles. The aim of the CVRP is to design a set of Hamiltonian cycles (vehicle routes) starting and terminating at the central depot, such that the demand of customers is totally satisfied, each customer is visited once by a single vehicle, the total demand of the customers assigned to a route does not exceed vehicle capacity, and the overall travel cost of the designed route set is minimized. In cases where industries do not own a vehicle fleet, or their private fleet is inadequate for fully satisfying customer demand, distribution services (or at least a part of them) are either entrusted to external contractors, or assigned to a hired vehicle fleet. In these cases, vehicles are not required to return to the central depot after their deliveries have been satisfied. The above described distribution model is referred to as the open vehicle routing problem (OVRP). It can be seen as a slight variant of the standard CVRP model by simply ignoring the return trip of the vehicles to the central depot. Therefore, the goal of the OVRP is to design a set of Hamiltonian paths (open routes) for satisfying customer demand. In terms of the OVRP objective, most researchers assume that the cost for hiring an additional vehicle far surpasses any travel cost savings achieved by this additional route [2]  and  [3] ; therefore their primary target is to minimize the number of required vehicles and secondarily minimize the total distance traveled. Although the minimization of routes is the most widely considered primary OVRP objective, researchers have also solved the OVRP aiming at solely minimizing the total distance traveled without taking into account the required fleet size. In graph theoretic terms, OVRP is defined on a graph G =( V , A   ), where V={v 0 ,v 1 ,…,v n } V = { v 0 , v 1 , … , v n } is the vertex set and A = { ( v i , v j ) : v i , v j ∈ V , i ≠ j , j ≠ 0 } is the arc set. Vertex v 0 represents the central depot where a fleet of vehicles is located, each of them with maximum carrying load equal to Q . The remaining n   vertices of V ⧹ {v 0 } V ⧹ { v 0 } represent the customer set. Each customer vertex is associated with a non-negative known demand q i q i , whereas each arc (v i ,v j )∈A ( v i , v j ) ∈ A is associated with a cost c ij c ij which corresponds to the cost (travel time, distance) for transiting from v i v i to v j v j . As with most previous OVRP approaches, we consider that the cost matrix is obtained by calculating the Euclidean distances between vertex pairs, so that c ij = c ji ( 0 < i , j ≤ n , i ≠ j ) . The primary goal of the problem is to design the set of Hamiltonian paths (open routes) so that: (a) the size of the path set is minimized (minimization of vehicles), whereas the secondary objective is to (b) minimize the total cost of the generated paths. The following constraints must be satisfied: (c) every path originates from the central depot v 0 , (d) each customer vertex is assigned to a single path, and (e) the total demand of the customer set assigned to a single path does not exceed the maximum carrying load Q of the vehicles (capacity constraint). Note that if the minimization of the fleet size is not considered to be the primary aim of the OVRP, only objective (b) is taken into account.