  In this paper, we address a bi-objective vehicle routing problem in which the total length of routes is minimized as well as the balance of routes, i.e. the difference between the maximal route length and the minimal route length. We propose a meta-heuristic method based on an evolutionary algorithm involving classical multi-objective operators. To improve its efficiency, two mechanisms, which favor the diversification of the search, have been added. First, an elitist diversification mechanism is used in cooperation with classical diversification methodologies. Second, a parallel model designed to take into account the elitist diversification is proposed. Our method is tested on standard benchmarks for the vehicle routing problem. The contribution of the introduced mechanisms is evaluated by different performance metrics. All the experimentations indicate a strict improvement of the generated Pareto set. Keywords Routing ; Multi-objective optimization ; Genetic algorithms ; Parallel algorithms 1. Introduction This paper investigates methods for solving multi-objective combinatorial optimization (MOCO) problems. We are specially interested in solving a bi-objective vehicle routing problem (VRP). The elementary version of the vehicle routing problem is the capacitated vehicle routing problem (CVRP). It can be modeled as a problem on a complete graph where the vertices are associated to a unique depot and to m   customers. Each customer must be served a quantity q i q i of goods (i=1,…,m) ( i = 1 , … , m ) from the unique depot. To deliver those goods, vehicles are available. With each vehicle is associated a maximal amount Q of goods it can transport. A solution of the CVRP is a collection of routes where each customer is visited only once and the total demand for each route is at most Q   . With each arc (i,j) ( i , j ) is associated the distance between vertex i and vertex j . The CVRP aims to determine a minimal total length solution. It has been proved NP-hard [1] and solution methods range from exact methods to specific heuristics, and meta-heuristics [2] . Multi-objective vehicle routing problems have been more and more studied over these past years [3] . These studies are motivated by a need to extend or generalize existing problems or to solve problems clearly defined as multi-objective ones by decision-makers. Among the different objectives considered in the literature, some objectives are designed to even out disparities between the tours. Such objectives are often introduced in order to bring an element of fairness into play. To define a balancing objective, it is necessary to define the workload for a tour, which can be expressed as the number of customers visited, the quantity of delivered goods, the tour length or the required time, for example. Example of studies solving problems containing balancing objectives can be found in [4] , [5] , [6]  and  [7] . In this paper, we consider an extension of the CVRP, called the vehicle routing problem with route balancing (VRPRB). In the VRPRB, two objectives are optimized: (1) Minimization of the distance traveled by the vehicles. (2) Minimization of the difference between the longest route length and the shortest route length. Note that each tour of the solutions should be optimal in terms of length to avoid artificially balanced solutions (see Fig. 1 ). Usual methods such as Taburoute [8] or Prins’ GA [9] , which can be regarded as some of the best algorithms for the CVRP, do not take into account the route balancing objective. As shown in our computational results, the solutions of these methods are of poor quality if the balance is considered. Fig. 1.  (a) is better-balanced than (b), but (b) does not artificially improve the balance. Figure options Our solution is based on a meta-heuristic approach to approximate the Pareto set. Our choice of meta-heuristics is motivated by the difficulty of solving the problem with exact approaches. Since a Pareto set has to be generated, population based methods like multi-objective evolutionary algorithms (MOEA) [10]  and  [11] seem well-fitted. To obtain well-diversified approximation of the Pareto set, the authors use diversification mechanisms [12] . To improve the efficiency of MOEA, parallelization of algorithms is proposed by some researchers [13] , [14]  and  [15] . In this paper, we propose a MOEA for the VRPRB which includes two new mechanisms to improve the quality of the approximation of the Pareto set. The first mechanism, called the elitist diversification, is a diversification technique which is used in addition of a classic diversification mechanism. The elitist diversification naturally induces a co-operative model which is extended into an island model, which is the second mechanism used. The island model is defined to incorporate the main features of the elitist diversification, i.e. the additional archives. The paper is organized as follows. Section 2 introduces the new mechanisms proposed for the solution of a multi-objective problem. In Section 3 , we specify the implementation of both mechanisms and we present the main components of the MOEA devised for the VRPRB. In Section 4 , we assess the efficiency of the new mechanisms and of the MOEA with different indicators on a set of standard benchmarks. Conclusions are drawn in Section 5 . 2. New mechanisms for MOEA We have defined two new mechanisms for the solution of a multi-objective problem using a MOEA. A standard iteration of a MOEA usually consists of the following steps: (1) Evaluation : The fitness (quality) of the individuals in the population is evaluated. Typically, two kinds of information are computed for each individual. The first one determines its quality in terms of convergence and the second one is related to the diversification. (2) Parent selection : Solutions ( parents ) are selected according to their fitness. Non-dominated solutions kept in an archive are also considered. (3) Crossover : Solutions selected during the previous step are combined to produce solutions ( offspring ). (4) Mutation : The offspring is randomly modified with a given probability. (5) Population update : Parents and offspring are merged in the current population. All the solutions are not necessarily kept. The archive is also updated by removing the solutions dominated by one offspring and including the non-dominated offspring.