  Vehicle routing encompasses a whole class of complex optimization problems that target the derivation of minimum total cost routes for a number of resources (vehicles) located at a central point (depot) in order to service efficiently a number of demand points (customers). Several practical issues in the food industry, involving both production and transportation decisions are modelled as VRP instances and are hard combinatorial problems in the strong sense (NP-hard). For such problems, metaheuristics, i.e., general solution procedures that explore the solution space to identify high quality solutions and often embed some standard route construction and improvement algorithms have been proposed. This paper surveys the recent research efforts on metaheuristic solution methodologies for the standard and most widely studied version of the Vehicle Routing Problem (VRP), i.e., the Capacitated VRP. The computational performance of each metaheuristic is presented for the 14 benchmark instances of Christofides et al. [Christofides, N., Mingozzi, A., & Toth, P. (1979). Combinatorial optimization (p. 315). Chichester: Wiley]. Keywords Vehicle routing problem ; Metaheuristics ; Optimization The Vehicle Routing Problem (VRP) ( Toth & Vigo, 2002 ) embraces a whole class of complex problems, in which a set of minimum total cost routes must be determined for a number of resources (i.e., a fleet of vehicles) located at one or several points (e.g., depots, warehouses), in order to service efficiently a number of demand or supply (or both) points ( Angelelli and Speranza, 2002 , Caricato et al., 2003 , Ioannou et al., 2001 , Ioannou et al., 2003 , Tarantilis et al., 2004  and  Tarantilis et al., 2002c ). Although the VRP has been extensively used in the area of transportation science since 1960s, many managers have started employing VRP models during the last years for effective decision-making. The following are some examples of the multitude of VRP applications in manufacturing and service operations management. • Routing of automated guided vehicles, which are considered as one of the most appropriate modes for material handling in contemporary flexibly automated production environments ( Herrmann et al., 1999  and  Reveliotis, 2000 ). • Minimization of the distribution costs in a multi-facility production system ( Dhaenens-Flipo, 2000 ). • Determination of vehicle routes for material delivery within the premises of a plant operating under a Just-In-Time philosophy ( Vaidyanathan, 1999 ). • Sequencing of the operations in single or multi-feeder printed circuit board manufacturing ( Altinkemer et al., 2000  and  Kazaz and Altınkemer, 2003 ). • In this paper, we address the standard and most widely studied version of the VRP, i.e., the Capacitated VRP (CVRP). The CVRP is a combinatorial optimization problem defined on a graph G  = ( V ,  A ), where V  = { u 0 ,  u 1 , … ,  u n } is the vertex set and A  = {( u i ,  u j ): u i ,  u j  ∈  V ,  i  ≠  j } is the arc set of G . Vertex u 0 represents a depot (warehouse or distribution centre) that hosts a homogeneous fleet of m vehicles with capacity Q . The remaining vertices correspond to demand points (or equivalently, customers). Each customer u i has a non-negative demand q i . The vector of all customer demands is denoted by q ( V ). A service time s i is required by each vehicle to unload the demand quantity q i at customer u i . Furthermore, a non-negative cost matrix C  = ( c ij ) is defined on A ; usually, the cost c ij models the travel time between customers i and j . If c ij  =  c ji , the problem is symmetric, and it is common to replace A with the edge set E  = {( u i ,  u j ): u i ,  u j  ∈  V ,  i  <  j }. The cost of a route R k  = { u 0 ,  u 1 , … ,  u m } is given by c ( R k ) = ∑ i = 0 m c i , i + 1 + ∑ i = 1 m s i , where nodes u 0 and u m +1 coincide (they both represent the depot). The CVRP consists of designing a set of m routes such that (a) The total routing cost c ( VRP ) = ∑ i = 1 m c ( R k ) is minimized. (b) Each route R k starts and ends at the depot. (c) Each customer is visited exactly once by exactly one vehicle. (d) The total demand of any route does not exceed Q . The combinatorial nature of the CVRP is evident from the structure of the problem itself: a solution for the CVRP consists of a partition R 1 , … ,  R m of V , and a corresponding permutation p k of R k  ∪  u 0 specifying the order of the customers in the route k . It is important to note that the number of vehicles is either pre-determined or is treated as a decision variable. In other words, it may be assumed that m is greater than or equal to m min , the minimum number of vehicles required to service all customers. The value of m min can be computed by solving a bin packing problem (BPP) ( Gendreau, Laporte, & Semet, 2004 ) associated with the CVRP. The BPP can be stated as follows: Determine the minimum number of bins with equal capacity Q required for packing (loading) n items, each with a non-negative weight (demand) q i . Thus, a feasible solution for a given instance of the CVRP is also the result of an instance of the BPP. After determining m min (the lower bound on the number of vehicles), the CVRP can be approached with m ⩾ m min . Apart from the direct linkage between BPP and CVRP, the latter generalizes the well-known Travelling Salesman Problem (TSP) ( Kabadi, 2002 ). The TSP arises when Q  ⩾  q ( V ) and m  =  m min  = 1, allowing all the relaxations proposed for the TSP to be valid for the VRP.