Password: This paper presents a methodology for classifying the literature of the Vehicle Routing Problem (VRP). VRP as a field of study and practice is defined quite broadly. It is considered to encompass all of the managerial, physical, geographical, and informational considerations as well as the theoretic disciplines impacting this ever emerging-field. Over its lifespan the VRP literature has become quite disjointed and disparate. Keeping track of its development has become difficult because its subject matter transcends several academic disciplines and professions that range from algorithm design to traffic management. Consequently, this paper defines VRP’s domain in its entirety, accomplishes an all-encompassing taxonomy for the VRP literature, and delineates all of VRP’s facets in a parsimonious and discriminating manner. Sample articles chosen for their disparity are classified to illustrate the descriptive power and parsimony of the taxonomy. Moreover, all previously published VRP taxonomies are shown to be relatively myopic; that is, they are subsumed by what is herein presented. Because the VRP literature encompasses esoteric and highly theoretical articles at one extremum and descriptions of actual applications at the other, the article sampling includes the entire range of the VRP literature. Keywords Routing ; Vehicle routing ; VRP ; Taxonomy ; Classification 1. Introduction The primary objective of this paper is to present a taxonomic framework for defining and integrating the domain of the extant VRP literature in terms that are operationally meaningful. Such a framework will enable the classification of all VRP papers, which in turn will enable, among other things, systematic identification of voids in the literature and thus lead to potential topics for research. During the last three decades advances in computational capability, together with computer accessibility, have spawned major advances in algorithm development. These developments have enabled major advances in addressing the VRP. The need to improve vehicle routing was, in turn, spurred on by explosive developments in theory and applications of supply chain management. So, it should come as no surprise that the VRP literature has grown exponentially as a result of the above. The literature of history and philosophy of science is replete with admonitions that, as important as it is to publish knowledge gained from good research in a given subject area, it is even more important to periodically reflect and assess where the field has been, where it is heading, and what, if anything, should be done to change that field’s course. This indicates the need for some form of meta-research ( Abbott, 1988 , Cooper, 1984 , Cooper, 1988 , Cooper, 1989  and  Cooper, 1998 ). In primary (social science) research, data are collected by asking people questions or observing their behaviour. In research synthesis, data are collected by conducting a search of reports describing past studies relevant to the topic of interest – ( Cooper, 1998 ). Meta-research often serves other very important objectives as well. One of these is consolidating the knowledge in a given discipline; another is expanding the discipline’s scope. Consolidation and expansion are not mutually exclusive; in fact, they are complimentary. 1.1. A review of some previous classification efforts and taxonomies As discussed in Reisman (1992) , there are at least two efficient and effective ways of consolidating knowledge. One of these is to create a taxonomy and the other is to create a generalized framework (a general model or theory) that subsumes all existing models, facts, or theories within that field. A taxonomy displays the subject’s domain in terms that are easy to understand, communicate, teach, learn, and work with. It enables efficient and effective classification of any and all contributions/publications. In turn, this enables efficient and effective storage, recall, sorting, and/or statistical analyses. Because such classification results are meaningfully machine readable, they enable further meta-research which includes, but is not limited to, identification of voids in the literature and, therefore, directions/specifications for research to be performed. As shown in Vogel and Weterbe, 1984  and  Reisman, 1992 , there are many other uses for such a classification scheme. Bibliometric analysis is one of the more important of these for graduate OR/MS and Decision Science education. Some taxonomical efforts about VRPs have appeared in the literature. Bodin (1975) , first to introduce a taxonomical structure, focused on routing and scheduling problems with static requirements. Bodin provided a taxonomy with the aim of offering solution methods for each subcategory identified. Bodin and Golden (1981) extended Bodin’s work by including a hierarchical model that encompasses very simple vehicle scheduling problems to complex scheduling-routing problems. These two studies were later used by Min, Jayaraman, and Srivastava (1998) to provide a taxonomy with a perspective in location-allocation-routing problems. The authors, however, focused on static problems and justified this limited scope by the scarcity of dynamic problems. They introduced a taxonomy model for solution methods. However, their taxonomy failed to provide any insight into meta-heuristics. Desrochers, Lenstra, and Savelsbergh (1990) introduced a three-level classification scheme that is simple, yet elaborate and robust enough to represent the contemporary literature at the time of its publication. At the first level of this classification, the problems are studied based on “ addresses ” (the network’s node characteristics), “ vehicles ” (characteristics of the vehicles and their routes), “ problem characteristics ” (the underlying network, service strategy, and constraints on relations between addresses and vehicles), and “ objectives ” (the objective function’s characteristics). The Desrochers et al. (1990) model was applied to different problems within the literature. However, their taxonomy lacks the ability to incorporate current stochastic and dynamic VRPs as well as other static routing problems with uncommon constraints. Their work is practical and represents a good model for an academic standard in taxonomy. In a later study Desrochers, Jones, Lenstra, Savelsbergh, and Stougie (1999) developed a model and algorithm management system for vehicle routing, as well as for scheduling problems. It provided support in modeling situations and algorithms that might be applicable to emerging problems. The management system proposed by Desrochers et al. (1999) is most helpful in handling real-world problems, from observation to formulation, algorithm selection, and ultimately to implementation. Current and Marsh (1993) provided a classification for the multiobjective design of transportation networks within three hierarchical levels. The first level of the taxonomy partitions the multiobjective network problems into eight branches, one of which is the VRP. Each branch is divided into two sub-groups based on whether it incorporates a heuristic or exact algorithm. Although the taxonomy can handle many aspects, especially those related to the objective function, it provides hardly any information about constraints, network properties, or other physical attributes of problems. Powell and Shapiro (1999) provided a more detailed classification and representational structure. Their focus was on “dynamic resource transformation problems.” This wide class further divides into “dynamic resource allocation problems,” “dynamic resource scheduling problems,” and “dynamic resource management problems.” The study comprised, but was not limited to, vehicle routing, scheduling, and dispatching problems. They listed a number of problem types available in the literature and sorted them according to increasing levels of complexity and introduced a representational template with three major fields: information, process, and controls . However, with its level of detail, the paper fails to address many versions and configurations of the VRP. Actually, the authors did not attempt further development of their template into a single robust taxonomic structure. One important review and taxonomical study was provided by Psaraftis (1995) . After identifying currently available dynamic transportation models, he provided a non-exhaustive classification of distribution problems under 10 configurations occurring in real world environments. Psaraftis clearly defined dynamic problems and isolated them from the static ones. Since a dynamic nature comes with input data characteristics, he provided a taxonomy useful in characterizing input information attributes. After defining twelve major factors that distinguish between static and dynamic transportation models, Psaraftis suggested some future research directions. In addition to the taxonomy-based studies summarized above, two reviews need to be mentioned. After identifying what makes VRPs stochastic, Gendreau, Laporte, and Seguin (1996a) discussed solution concepts. The study further delineated stochastic VRP groups and discussed their configuration by citing implemented solution methods found in the literature. Returning to the original routing problems, Laporte and Osman (1995) provided a bibliography of 500 studies. They group the problems into four major categories based on configuration: the traveling salesman problem (TSP), the VRP, the Chinese postman problem, and the rural postman problem. Their study provided further detail for these problem types and provided characteristics reported in the literature. Laporte and Osman’s study is one of a kind in the number of bibliographical entities provided on the vehicle routing literature. 1.2. A brief history of the VRP literature The paper by Dantzig, Fulkerson, and Johnson (1954) , the first record in the VRP literature, studied a relatively large scale TSP and proposed a solution method. That study was followed by a great volume of other TSP papers. TSP can be shown to be a specific case of VRP. Clarke and Wright (1964) first incorporated more than one vehicle in the problem formulation. Consequently, this study may be considered as being first in the VRP literature as we know it.