  Fuel consumption accounts for a large and increasing part of transportation costs. In this paper, the Fuel Consumption Rate (FCR), a factor considered as a load dependant function, is added to the classical capacitated vehicle routing problem (CVRP) to extend traditional studies on CVRP with the objective of minimizing fuel consumption. We present a mathematical optimization model to formally characterize the FCR considered CVRP (FCVRP) as well as a string based version for calculation. A simulated annealing algorithm with a hybrid exchange rule is developed to solve FCVRP and shows good performance on both the traditional CVRP and the FCVRP in substantial computation experiments. The results of the experiments show that the FCVRP model can reduce fuel consumption by 5% on average compared to the CVRP model. Factors causing the variation in fuel consumption are also identified and discussed in this study. Keywords Fuel Consumption Rate (FCR) ; Capacitated VRP (CVRP) ; FCR considered CVRP (FCVRP) ; String-model-based Simulated Annealing (SMSA) algorithm 1. Introduction The Vehicle Routing Problem (VRP) is a classic combinatorial optimization problem involved in many applications. Since its introduction by Dantzig and Ramser [8] , VRP has been extensively studied. By considering additional requirements and various constraints on route construction, different Vehicle Routing Problems (VRPs) have been formulated. For example, the Pickup and Delivery VRP includes both deliveries and collections; the Capacitated VRP requires that the load on each route not exceed the given capacity of the vehicle; the Multiple Depot VRP specifies that there are many depots and that each vehicle can start or end its route at any of these depots; the VRP with Time Windows requires that the service to the customers occur within given time windows, etc. Recently, various VRPs with new application backgrounds have been addressed. For example, by taking into consideration time windows associated with customers, disposal facilities and the depot, and drivers' rest period, Benjamin and Beasley [4] solved a waste collection vehicle routing problem through a variable neighborhood search-based algorithm. Surveys and reviews of models of classical and evolved VRP can be found in Golden and Assad [10] , Bodin [5] , Laporte and Osman [22] , Laporte [21] , Toth and Vigo [28] , Golden et al. [11] , Hoff et al. [14] , etc. There are extensive studies on algorithms for solving VRPs. Since VRP is NP-hard, exact algorithms are only available for those problems with small size. For example, Baldacci et al. [3] concluded that the largest CVRP instance that can be solved consistently by the most effective exact algorithms contains about 50 customers and instances with more than 100 customers, which may only be tackled with heuristic methods. Meta-heuristics, including Evolutionary Algorithm, Tabu Search, Simulated Annealing, Variable Neighborhood Search, etc., have shown advantages in solving both the classical VRP and its variants in many cases. Surveys covering exact algorithms, though mainly devoted to heuristic methods, can be found in several papers, e.g., Laporte [20] , Assad and Golden [2] , Laporte and Osman [22] , Golden et al. [11]  and  [12] , and Potvin [25] . It has been recognized that the cost of a vehicle traveling along a route depends on many factors. These can be divided into two sets. Factors in the first set including distance, load, speed, road conditions, fuel consumption rate (FCR)—fuel consumption per unit of distance, fuel price, etc., have a direct relationship with the traveling schedule. The factors in the second set have no direct relationship with the traveling schedule, and include depreciation of the tires and the vehicle, maintenance, driver wages, tax, etc. [3] , [28]  and  [18] . By comparison, the factors in the first set are directly related to fuel consumption and therefore can be regarded as variable cost or fuel cost . In addition, if other factors are kept constant, the fuel consumption then mainly depends on distance and load. For example, the variable cost of an empty vehicle is always less than the cost of a fully loaded vehicle when traveling along a specific route at the same speed. Although there are different forms of VRPs, most of them minimize the cost by minimizing the total distance without considering the fuel consumption rate. In fact, it is the amount of fuel consumed, not the traveled distance that is the greater concern to transportation companies that pursue fuel cost savings. Statistics show that fuel cost is a significant part of total transportation cost. For example, for a road transportation company in Shanghai, China, the fuel cost (which is about US$1,550,000 per year) accounts for 67.41% of the total transportation cost [30] . If the fuel cost can be reduced by 5%, a saving of approximately US$75,500 can be achieved per year, which means that over 3% of total transportation costs can be saved. An empirical analysis in Sahin et al. [26] also indicated that for a truck with a capacity of 20 tons, when fully loaded, the fuel cost for 1000 km traveled accounts for 60% the total cost. Therefore, it is important to reduce fuel consumption by improving operational efficiency. A reduction in fuel consumption also benefits the whole of society since the emission of carbon dioxide (a reported main factor in the greenhouse effect) can be correspondingly reduced. Although fuel consumption is largely determined by distance, other factors such as load, as we discuss in this paper, also have a considerable impact on fuel costs, as shown in Fig. 1 . Therefore, it is worth studying VRPs by remodeling them in terms of fuel consumption in order to better match actual situations. Fig. 1.  Statistic data on vehicles' running distances for per liter oil burning to their weights. In addition to studies on distance traveled, there are several studies on other factors that also impact fuel consumption. Tavares et al. [27] took into account the effect of both road inclination and vehicle load on fuel consumption in waste collection. Ericsson et al. [9] identified the impact of traffic disturbance events on fuel consumption and proposed a model for estimating the potential reduction in fuel consumption through route optimization. However, there are few studies on the impact of load on fuel consumption in a multi-node-based route. In Tavares et al. [27] , only three levels of vehicle loads are considered: half load when collecting the waste, full load on the way to the disposal site, and no load on the way back. Nor is the relation between FCR and load discussed in that study. In multi-node-based problems such as delivery VRPs, load decreases whenever the vehicle reaches a site and leaves, resulting in a reduced fuel consumption rate along the route. It is necessary therefore to take the load-dependent FCR into account in order to estimate fuel consumption more accurately. From the literature review we conducted, only one study was found that solved VRPs in a way similar to that discussed above. Based on the consideration of distance and load of the vehicle, Kara et al. [18] proposed a cost function in terms of energy consumption for VRP and named it as Energy Minimizing VRP (EMVRP). They also developed models for collection and delivery cases. However, they did not discuss in detail the formulation of fuel consumption, nor did they develop any problem-specified algorithm. Their examples were solved by CPLEX 8.0 software.