  We present an adaptation of the active-guided evolution strategies metaheuristic for the capacitated vehicle routing problem. The capacitated vehicle routing problem is a classical problem in operations research in which a set of minimum total cost routes must be determined for a fleet of identical capacitated vehicles in order to service a number of demand or supply points. The applied metaheuristic combines the strengths of the well-known guided local search and evolution strategies metaheuristics into an iterative two-stage procedure. The computational experiments were carried out on a set of 76 benchmark problems. The results demonstrate that the suggested method is highly competitive, providing the best-known solutions to 70 test instances. Keywords Vehicle routing ; Heuristics ; Evolution strategies ; Guided local search 1. Introduction Logistics, and especially the distribution of goods, lies at the heart of business activity. Formally, most problems in the domain of goods distribution can be viewed as vehicle routing problems (VRP). The capacitated VRP (CVRP) constitutes the classical version of the VRP and assuming the symmetry of the cost matrix, we define the problem formally on an undirected graph G=(V,E) G = ( V , E ) where V={v 0 ,…,v n } V = { v 0 , … , v n } is the vertex set and E={(v i ,v j ):v i ,v j ∈V,i<j} E = { ( v i , v j ) : v i , v j ∈ V , i < j } is an edge set. Vertex v 0 v 0 represents a depot, while the remaining vertices correspond to customers. With each vertex v i ∈V v i ∈ V is associated a non-negative demand q i q i and a service time s i s i . With each edge (v i ,v j ) ( v i , v j ) is associated a non-negative cost, c ij c ij , interpreted here as a travel time. All vehicles have identical capacity, Q Q , and the number of vehicles is not determined a priori. The CVRP consists in determining a set of vehicle routes (a) starting and ending at the depot, and such that (b) each customer is visited exactly once, (c) the total demand of any vehicle route does not exceed Q Q , (d) the duration of any route (including service times) does not exceed a (possibly) preset upper limit, and (e) the total cost of all routes is minimized. Here, one must note that in the literature the above described VRP with route duration limit is often separated from CVRP and called distance-constrained VRP. The algorithms presented in this paper are designed for and used to solve problems both without and with route duration limit. As the VRP is a very complex NP-hard problem, solving the VRP to optimality is not always possible within the limited computing time one often has in practical situations. In these cases one must focus on heuristic and metaheuristic solution methods that will produce high-quality solutions in limited time. For more details, we refer to extensive surveys of Laporte et al. [1] , Laporte and Semet [2] , Gendreau et al. [3] and Cordeau et al. [4]  and  [5] . For exact solution methods, we refer to surveys by Toth and Vigo [6] , Naddef and Rinaldi [7] and Bramel and Simchi-Levi [8] . Given the practical importance of VRPs, it is crucial that new solution algorithms are developed to solve VRPs as efficiently as possible. The main contribution of this paper is the adaptation of the active-guided evolution strategies (AGES) metaheuristic of Mester and Bräysy [9] for the CVRP. Our experiments on 76 CVRP benchmarks from the literature demonstrate that the proposed algorithm is fast, cost-effective and highly competitive. It finds the best-known solutions to 70 out of the 76 tested CVRP instances. The remainder of this paper is outlined as follows. The main features of the AGES metaheuristic are described in Section 2 . Section 3 details the parameter values of the tested algorithm configurations and presents the results of a comprehensive computational study. Finally, in Section 4 conclusions are drawn.