  The maximum profit two- or three-dimensional knapsack packing problem packs a maximum profit subset of some given rectangles or boxes into a larger rectangle or box of fixed dimensions. Items must be orthogonally packed, but no other restriction is imposed to the problem. We present a new iterative heuristic for the two-dimensional knapsack problem based on the sequence pair representation proposed by Murata et al. [VLSI module packing based on rectangle-packing by the sequence pair. IEEE Transaction on Computer Aided Design of Integrated Circuits and Systems 1996;15:1518–24] using a semi-normalized packing algorithm by Pisinger [Denser packings obtained in O ( n log log n ) time. INFORMS Journal on Computing 2007;19:395–405]. Solutions are represented as a pair of sequences. In each iteration, the sequence pair is modified and transformed to a packing in order to evaluate the objective value. Simulated annealing is used to control the heuristic. A novel abstract representation of box placements, called sequence triple, is used with a similar technique for the three-dimensional knapsack problem. The heuristic is able to handle problem instances where rotation is allowed. Comprehensive computational experiments which compare the developed heuristics with previous approaches indicate very promising results for both two- and three-dimensional problems. Keywords Cutting and packing ; Two-dimensional knapsack problems ; Three-dimensional knapsack problem ; Heuristics ; Simulated annealing ; Sequence pair ; Sequence-tripple 1. Introduction Assume that we are given a set of n n rectangles j=1,…,n j = 1 , … , n , each having a width w j w j , height h j h j and profit p j p j and a rectangular plate having width W W and height H H . The maximum profit two-dimensional knapsack packing (2DKP) problem assigns a subset of the rectangles onto the plate such that the associated profit sum is maximized. All coefficients are assumed to be nonnegative integers, and the rectangles may not be rotated. A packing of rectangles on the plate is feasible if no two rectangles overlap, and if no part of any rectangle exceeds the plate. The maximum profit three-dimensional knapsack packing   (3DKP) problem assigns a subset of boxes each with dimensions w j ,h j ,d j w j , h j , d j into a larger box with dimensions W W , H H and D D . The problem has direct applications in various packing and cutting problems where the task is to use the space or material in an optimal way. The 2DKP problem also appears as pricing problem when solving the two-dimensional bin-packing problem [1] , [2]  and  [3] . 2DKP and 3DKP are NP-hard in the strong sense, which can be shown by reduction from the one-dimensional bin-packing problem. An extensive survey on cutting and packing as well as a useful classification of these problems was developed by Wascher et al. [4] . The problems we consider in this paper can be classified as two- and three-dimensional rectangular single knapsack problems (SKP) according to the typology of Wascher et al. [4] . The items considered are strongly heterogeneous and we consider problems with and without rotation. A related problem is the constrained two-dimensional orthogonal non-guillotine cutting problem. Here equal items are grouped in types and for each item-type there are both a lower bound and an upper bound on the number of that type required in the solution. Therefore the constrained non-guillotine cutting problem may be seen as a generalization of the orthogonal knapsack packing problem. Instances for the constrained non-guillotine cutting problem are often weakly heterogeneous, and solution methods commonly take advantage here of. Integer Programming formulations of the 2DKP have been presented by Beasley [5] , Hadjiconstantinou and Christofides [6] and Boschetti et al. [7] among others.