- July 8, 1941 F. FREUND. com AND KNAPSACK COMBINATION Filed Aug. 2, 1940 ZZZ- 15.111} D FREU D ATTORNEY Patented July 8, 1941 iJNi'iED stares rarest arises FFECE Claims. This invention relates to coats and more particularly to a coat constructed and arranged to support a knapsack or the like at the back thereof. One object of the invention is to provide a coat adapted to have a knapsack or other article container or carrier attached thereto and supported in such manner that the coat is relieved of the weight of the knapsack thus obviating such pull on the coat by the knapsack as would tend to displace the coat, especially the upper and collar portions thereof, and in such manner that it is unnecessary to button or otherwise fasten the front portions of the coat together in order to properly support the knapsack. Another object of the invention is to provide a coat with means for attaching a knapsack thereto in removable relation, said means preferably including straps which, when the knapsack is detached from the coat, can be fastened at the back of the coat to constitute a belt, the latter being preferably adjustable. Another object of the invention is the provision in combination of a coat and a knapsack or other article carrier secured to each other in detachable relation whereby the knapsack can be supported by the coat when attached thereto and whereby the knapsack can constitute a. carrying case or bag for the coat when the latter is detached from the knapsack. Another object of the invention is to provide a coat of the character described of such construction that it is adapted to have a knapsack attached thereto and yet constructed particularly with respect to the means for attaching the knapsack in position whereby the weather-proof and protective properties of the coat are not impaired and the coat can be worn as a raincoat, wind-breaker, etc. A yet further object of the invention is generally to provide an improved coat and knapsack combination. The above objects of the invention and other objects which might hereinafter appear will be fully understood from the following description, reference being had to the accompanying drawing which, while showing the preferred embodiment of the invention, is to be considered as illustrative of the invention and not in limitation thereof. In the drawing: Fig. l. is a perspective view of the back of the crmt with the knapsack attached thereto and illustrates the coat and knapsack combination as it appears on the wearer; Fig. 2 is a View, on a larger scale, of the inside of the coat in substantially flat unfolded condition; Fig. 3 is an outer view of the back and parts of the front of the coat in the flat unfolded condition thereof; Fig, 4 is a sectional view, on a larger scale, on the line 4-4 of Fig. 3. Referring now more particularly to the drawing, the coat and knapsack combination embodying the present invention comprises a coat I0 constructed and arranged to support at the back thereof a knapsack or other article carrier l2, the latter and the coat being preferably in detachable relation with respect to each other. The coat can be formed of any suitable material such as water-proof or water-repellant fabric and is preferably made to be worn as a raincoat, windbreaker, hikers jacket, etc. The collar of the coat is indicated at M and as illustrated in Fig. 2 the front portions of the coat are provided with a closure constituted by any suitable means, here shown as slide fastener operated members l6 and is conventionally known as Zipper fasteners. Referring now more particularly to the construction of the coat in relation to the features thereof whereby the coat is well adapted for the purposes of the present invention, said coat comprises as here shown a yoke 2i) at the upper back portion thereof terminating at its lower edge preferably a short distance below the shoulders and in the region of the sleeves 22 of the coat and extending preferably for the full width of the coat in said region thereof. The yoke is stitched to the main back portion 24 of the coat by a seam 26 and has a downwardly extended part'28 having an upwardly folded substantially co-extensive portion 313 secured at its upper edge in said seam 25. A slide fastener stringer 32 substantially co-extensive in length with the lower edge portion of yoke 28 is also secured in position by seam 25. The knapsack I2 is provided at its upper edge with a companion slide fastener stringer 35, said stringers 32 and 34 carrying interlocking fastener elements of the slide fastener or Zipper type and being completely detachable from each other so that the knapsack can be removed from the coat. It will be observed that downwardly extending portion 28 of yoke 20 overlies the slide fastener including the stringers 32 and 3 attached to the coat and to the knapsack, respectively, and constituting a slide fastener indicated as a whole by the reference numeral 36 in Figs. 1 and 3. 'Said overhanging portion 28 thus covers said slide resides in the construction of the coat and the arrangement therewith of the knapsack in combination with means for supporting the latter in such manner as to relieve the coat from the weight of the knapsack which may be substantial especially when the knapsack is loaded with articles. For this purpose the coat has attached thereto on the inside thereof straps 40 and 42 secured at their lower ends by the seam 26, that is, at or near the region at which the knapsack is attached to the coat or at or near the line of attachment between the upper and lower parts of the coat. Said straps have upwardly extending portions 44 and 46, respectively, arranged to extend over and to be supported by the wearers shoulders, portions 48 and 5!] extending downwardly from the wearers shoulders inside of the coat adjacent the opposite sides, respectively, thereof, and portions 52 and 54 which project from the inside of the coat externally thereof through openings 56 at opposite sides of the coat near the bottom of the coat or near the front pockets (not shown) with which jackets or coats of the wind-breaker type are customarily provided. The upper portions 44 and 46 of straps 40 and 42 are held in position by passing said straps through pairs of companion slits 58 in inner shoulder members 60. Said shoulder members 6!] are stitched at their side edges to the adjacent portions of the garment at the shoulders and adjacent the armholes 6| by the seams 62 and B4 and said members are also stitched in position by a central seam 66. Strap portions 44 and 46 extend through slits 58 and between members 60 and the overlying shoulder portions of the jacket in movable relation with respect thereto so that the straps can be adjusted. The downwardly extending portions 48 and 50 of the straps pass through loops 68 stitched to the inside of the coat near the lower portion of the armholes. outer free end portions 52 and 54 of straps 40 and 42, respectively, are provided with separable fastener means such as snap fasteners 10, said strap portions overlapping each other at the back of the garment and removably secured together by said separable fasteners. The back of knapsack I2 is provided at the lower portions thereof with loops 12 positioned adjacent the side edges of the knapsack. Strap portions 52 and 54 pass through said loops and when fastened together in the desired adjusted relation support the knapsack to the extent desired by the wearer of the coat whereby to relieve the coat substantially wholly or partially from the weight of the knapsack and the contents thereof. It will be understood that when the strap portions 52 and 54 are passed through loops 12 and adjusted as desired the knapsack is thereby raised somewhat whereby to counteract the pull of the knapsack on the slide fastener 35 and on the yoke 20 of the coat. By reason of this construction and arrangement of the means for supporting the knapsack such pull on the coat which might otherwise occur whereby to displace the upper part of the coat and the collar thereof The y is eliminated and moreover the coat can be worn open at the front while the knapsack is properly supported in a comfortable position at the back of the wearer. When it is desired to wear the coat without the knapsack attached thereto, the latter can be quickly and easily removed from the coat by disengaging the companion stringers 32 and 34 of the slide fastener 36 and by disengaging strap portions 52 and 54 from supporting loops 12. When the coat is worn without the knapsack, straps 4i) and 42 can be positioned, if desired, entirely on the inside of the coat, or strap portions 52 and 54 can be attached to each other adjustably and used as a belt at the back of the coat. Also, it will be understood that the knapsack can be used as a case or bag for the coat, in which case the latter can be folded and placed within the knapsack and packed therewith as a unit when not in use or in carrying the combination from place to place. While I have shown and described the preferred embodiment of the invention, it will be understood that the latter may be embodied otherwise than as herein shown and that in the illustrated embodiment certain changes in the details of construction and in the arrangement of parts may be made. For example, the loops or other parts described above for positioning straps 4i] and 42 can be varied as to construction and location and can be omitted, although the provision of said strap positioning and guiding means is preferred. Also, by way of example, it may be stated that the construction of the coat and the shape and appearance thereof can be varied. As numerous other changes may be made and will occur to others in view of the present disclosure, I do not wish to be limited to the in vention as herein shown or described except to the extent which may be required by the scope of the appended claims. Having thus described my invention, what I claim and desire to secure by Letters Patent is: l. The combination with a coat, of a knapsack or the like attached to the back of the coat, and means for relieving the back of the coat from the weight of the knapsack comprising parts positioned internally of the coat in position to engage over the wearers shoulders and parts extending through the coat to the outerside thereof and engaging the knapsack in supporting relation thereto. 2. The combination with a coat, of a knapsack or the like removably attached to the back of the coat, said coat and knapsack having companion separable fastener means providing a releasable attachment therebetween, straps secured to the back of the coat and extending over the wearers shoulders internally of the coat, said straps being attached to the back of the coat in position to counteract the weight of the knapsack on the back of the coat and having portlons extending through the coat to the outerside thereof and engaging the knapsack in supporting relation thereto. 3. The combination with a coat of a knapsack or the like removably attached to the back of the coat, said coat and knapsack having companion separable fastener means providing a releasable attachment therebetween, straps secured to the back of the coat and extending over the wearers shoulders internally of the coat, said straps being attached to the back of the coat in position to counteract the weight of the knapsack on the back of the coat and having portions extending through the coat to the outerside thereof and engaging the knapsack in supporting relation thereto, said outwardly extending portions of the straps having separable fastener means for removably securing said last mentioned portions of the straps to the knapsack. 4. A coat of the class described comprising a back portion having upper and lower parts secured to each other by a laterally extending seam, a slide fastener stringer extending laterally of the coat and secured in position at the line of attachment between said upper and lower parts of the back portion, said slide fastener stringer forming part of means for detachably securing a knapsack or other article carrier to the coat, and straps secured at their upper ends to the back of the coat internally thereof at said line of attachment of the upper and lower parts of said back portion and having parts extending through the coat at the back thereof in position to engage the knapsack in supporting relation therewith. 5. A coat of the class described comprising a back portion having upper and lower parts secured to each other by a laterally extending seam, a slide fastener stringer extending laterally of the coat and secured in position at the line of attachment between said upper and lower parts of the back portion, said slide fastener stringer forming part of means for detachably securing a knapsack or other article carrier to the coat, and straps secured at their upper ends to the back of the coat internally thereof at said line of attachment of the upper and lower parts of said back portion and having parts extending through the coat at the back thereof in position to engage the knapsack in supporting relation therewith, said parts of the strap being constructed and arranged to be attached to each other at the back of the coat externally thereof, to constitute a belt for the back of the coat when the knapsack is detached. FRED FREUND.