Password:   This paper presents a scatter search (SS) based method for finding a good approximation of the non-dominated frontier for large size bi-criteria {0, 1}-knapsack instances. The method follows the usual structure of SS: (1) diversification, (2) improvement, (3) reference set update, (4) subset generation, and (5) solution combination. For each component specific procedures were built which strongly benefit from the single criterion problem, and also from the characteristics of the neighbourhood of bi-criteria non-dominated solutions. These aspects permit the guidance and restriction of the exploration of the decision space. Experiments were carried out on a large set of instances and the computational results are presented. The approach seems to be very efficient and the quality of the approximation is quite good. These points are also discussed in the paper. Keywords Metaheuristics ; Scatter search method ; Bi-criteria knapsack problems ; Combinatorial optimization The single constraint {0, 1}-knapsack problem with several criteria is an important issue in the class of multiple criteria combinatorial optimization. Determining the whole set of the non-dominated solutions for large size bi-criteria instances is a very difficult task, despite the recent development of several new techniques, involving both exact ( Visée et al., 1998  and  Captivo et al., 2003 ) and metaheuristic approaches ( Czyzak and Jaskiewicz, 1998 , Ben Abdelaziz et al., 1999 , Gandibleux and Fréville, 2000  and  Gandibleux et al., 2001 ). Exact methods are very limited in dealing with the problem. It is only possible to determine the set of exact non-dominated solutions for random instances of about 500 items ( Visée et al., 1998  and  Captivo et al., 2003 ). This is mainly due to the computational and memory requirements. In fact, has not yet been developed a method that efficiently generates all the non-dominated solutions. The approximate methods have to take into account a good compromise between the quality of the approximation and the computational time taken, especially for large size instances. Over the last years were proposed, in different contexts, evolutionary algorithms which enhance that compromise by considering a hybrid approach, avoiding thus pure random search strategies: Ishibuchi and Murata, 1998 , Zitzler and Thiele, 1999b , Murata et al., 2000 , Deb and Goel, 2001 , Deb, 2001 , Morita et al., 2001 , Talbi et al., 2001 , Balicki and Kitowski, 2001 , Knowles and Corne, 2000 , Jaszkiewicz, 2001 , Jaszkiewicz, 2002a , Jaszkiewicz, 2002b  and  Jaszkiewicz, 2003 . The purpose of this paper is to apply the scatter search (SS) methodology to generate a set of solutions that approximates the “non-dominated frontier” for large size bi-criteria knapsack instances. As a population based method, SS is potentially suitable for tackling problems with several criteria. However, the use of this methodology in the multiple criteria field is very rare. There are only a few references to it in the literature: Beausoleil (2001) , presented a multiple criteria framework for a scheduling problem, Corberán et al. (2002) , considered the problem of routing school buses, and Martí et al. (2000) , considered the proctor assignment problem. The rest of the paper is organized as follows: Section 2 presents the basic definitions and empirical properties of the solutions of the {0, 1}-knapsack problem; Section 3 is devoted to the SS method; Section 4 describes the computational experiments and results; and Section 5 presents the main conclusions and future research.