Password: This paper examines the performances of a new labeling algorithm to find all the efficient paths (or non-dominated evaluation vectors) of the bicriteria 0–1 knapsack problem. To our knowledge this is the first time a bicriteria 0–1 knapsack is solved taking advantage of its previous conversion into a bicriteria shortest path problem over an acyclic network. Computational experiments and results are also presented regarding bicriteria instances of up to 900 items. The algorithm is very efficient for the hard bicriteria 0–1 knapsack instances considered in the paper. Scope and purpose The knapsack problem is a well-known combinatorial optimization problem. While most of the existing papers in the literature studied the single criterion model, this paper deals with the knapsack problem with two criteria. Literature on this topic is scarce. There is a growing need for new algorithms able to compute non-dominated solutions quickly. The motivation of this study was to explore the use of efficient labeling algorithms to obtain non-dominated solutions of combinatorial optimization problems that can be formulated as network models. The purpose of the article is to implement a new algorithm for the bicriteria 0–1 knapsack problem. After converting the knapsack model into a bicriteria path problem over an acyclic network, the methodology proposes the use of a very efficient labeling algorithm. The scope of applications of the algorithm includes capital budgeting problems, transportation investments, and so on. The major advantage of our approach is to compute non-dominated solutions for bicriteria 0–1 knapsack problems faster than other approaches as shown by the computational results. Keywords Bicriteria knapsack problem ; Bicriteria shortest path problem ; Labeling algorithms 1. Introduction Most of the existing books and papers on knapsack problems deal with a single criterion function (e.g. see Martello and Toth [1] ). The classical knapsack problem seeks to select, from a finite set of items, the subset which maximizes a linear function of the items chosen, subject to a single inequality constraint. This model describes real-life applications: capital budgeting problems, cutting stock problems, loading problems, project selection problems and can be found as a subproblem of other more general models. Nevertheless, it is insufficient to take into account many other practical situations. The single criterion model cannot take into account many relevant aspects of reality that “must be” represented by several criteria. So, a multiple criteria model seems to be more realistic. More precisely, the paper introduces a new algorithm for the general multiple criteria 0–1 knapsack problem and presents results, in terms of the number of efficient paths, CPU time and total memory used, for a large set of bicriteria instances. There have been relatively few studies dealing with this model (Rosenblatt and Sinuany-Stern [2] ; Kwak et al. [3] ; Teng and Tzeng [4] ). Knapsack models have also been used in modeling multiple criteria combinatorial optimization problems in the field of conservation biology (see Kostreva et al. [5] ). Recently, several approaches have been proposed to solve multiple criteria knapsack problems: branch-and-bound procedures by Visée et al. [6] , dynamic programming by Klamroth and Wiecek [7] , tabu search by Hansen [8] , simulated annealing by Ulungu et al. [9] and hybrid meta-heuristics (tabu search and genetic algorithms) by Ben Abdelaziz et al. [10] . In this paper a different approach is used which takes advantage of the network structure of the problem, after converting the bicriteria knapsack model into a bicriteria shortest path model. The algorithm is inspired by the multiple criteria labeling shortest path algorithmic framework for acyclic networks (see [11] ). But, the new algorithm is much more efficient because the characteristics inherent in the underlying network are taken into account. To our knowledge this algorithm is the first one designed and implemented to solve bicriteria knapsack problems formulated as a bicriteria shortest path model. In the experiments undertaken we had some difficulties coping with the insufficiency of memory requirements, preventing us from presenting results for more than two criteria. We are working on an implementation of an algorithm for more than two criteria and we hope to obtain new results soon. Two other approaches to obtain the set of all non-dominated solutions are available in the literature. The branch-and-bound approach by Visée et al. [6] , which was designed to take into account only two criteria, and the dynamic programming based approach by Klamroth and Wiecek [7] , which was designed to take into account more than two criteria. This approach is also based on the transformation of a knapsack into a network model, but is only theoretical in nature and no results are presented. The meta-heuristic based approaches by Hansen [8] , Ulungu et al. [9] and Ben Abdelaziz et al. [10] , generate a good approximation of the non-dominated set. However, approximative algorithms are not in the scope of this paper. This paper is organized as follows. In Section 2 , some definitions and the necessary background for carrying out the proposed approach are presented. In Section 3 , the method is outlined and the following issues are discussed: (i) how to formulate a knapsack model as a shortest path problem, and (ii) the main characteristics of the labeling algorithm applied to the particular acyclic network generated from the knapsack model. In Section 4 , computational experiments are reported and the efficiency of the new approach is discussed; a comparison with the branch-and-bound approach by Visée et al. [6] is also presented. Finally, in Section 5 , some possible improvements are advanced as well as some suggestions for further research. n is the number of items; • r is the number of criteria; • v j k is the k th value (or the k th profit) of the j th item, for k =1,…, r ( v j will be used when r =1); • w j is the weight of the j th item; • W is the total weight limitation of the knapsack (or the capacity of the knapsack). The multiple criteria knapsack problem can be stated as follows: equation ( 1 ) To understand better the approach some additional notation and definitions from graph theory [12] and multiple criteria combinatorial optimization are necessary.