Password:   The well-studied 0/1 Knapsack and Subset-Sum Problem are maximization problems that have an equivalent minimization version. While exact algorithms for one of these two versions also yield an exact solution for the other version, this does not apply to ε -approximate algorithms. We present several ε -approximate Greedy Algorithms for the minimization version of the 0/1 Knapsack and the Subset-Sum Problem, that are also ε -approximate for the respective maximization version. Keywords 0/1 Knapsack Problem ; Subset-Sum Problem ; Approximation ; Greedy Algorithms 1. Introduction The objective of the NP-hard 0/1 Knapsack Problem (KP) is to fill a knapsack with upper capacity with items having weight and profit such that the total weight of all inserted items does not exceed the capacity while their total profit is maximized. equation ( 3 ) The decision variables x 1 ,…, x n indicate which items are inserted in the knapsack, i.e. x i =1⇔ item i is inserted. Without loss of generality, we assume equation ( 4 ) Clearly, we can state the KP as the problem to minimize the profit of the items not inserted in the knapsack subject to the condition that their combined weight has to be at least d ≔∑ i =1 n w i − c . We will refer to this definition as Minimization Knapsack Problem (MinKP). equation ( 7 ) equation ( 8 ) The MinKP variables y 1 ,…, y n indicate which items are inserted in the minimization knapsack, which means that they are not inserted in the maximization knapsack. As a consequence, to a solution x 1 ,…, x n of the KP we define the corresponding solution of the MinKP as , and vice versa. The NP-hard Subset-Sum Problem (SSP) and the respective Minimization SSP (MinSSP) denote the special case of the KP and MinKP where p i = w i for all i =1,…, n . 2. Summary of approximation ratios While exact algorithms for one of the presented maximization or minimization problems also yield an exact solution for the corresponding version, this is not always the case for ε -approximate algorithms. An ε -approximate algorithm is an algorithm that yields a solution with a relative deviation from the optimum of less than the approximation ratio ε . This means that for every instance of the given maximization [minimization] problem with optimal objective value z ∗ the ε -approximate algorithm yields a solution value z which is greater equal than (1−ε)z ∗ [less equal than (1+ε)z ∗ ]. Table 1 shows some known ε -approximate algorithms and compares them to the algorithms of this paper, which are typeset in italics . All the given ratios are tight.