Password:   A critical event tabu search method which navigates both sides of the feasibility boundary has been shown effective for solving the multidimensional knapsack problem. In this paper, we apply the method to the multidimensional knapsack problem with generalized upper bound constraints. This paper also demonstrates the merits of using surrogate constraint information vs. a Lagrangian relaxation scheme as choice rules for the problem class. A constraint normalization method is presented to strengthen the surrogate constraint information and improve the computational results. The advantages of intensifying the search at critical solutions are also demonstrated. Keywords Critical event tabu search ; Strategic oscillation ; Surrogate constraint ; Multidimensional knapsack ; GUB 1. Introduction Formulation 1 ( GUBMKP ) equation ( 1 ) equation ( 3 ) equation ( 4 ) A well-stated GUBMKP assumes that a ij ⩽ b i and because any violation of the former will result in x j 's being fixed at 0 and any violation of the latter will result in the i th constraint being eliminated. The GUBMKP formulation was used in Li et al. [2] for a striking asset allocation application. In their paper, there are a set of striking asset classes and a set of military targets. Striking asset classes are combined to form a set of attack packages for each target. The problem setting of their paper is to select at most one attack package for each target from the corresponding GUB set to maximize overall destroying power subject to the capacity constraints of all the asset classes. There is a resource constraint associated with each asset class and a GUB constraint associated with each target. Large-scale test problems built in [2] are used for the computational experiments in the present paper. The goal of this paper is to develop efficient tabu search approaches to solve the GUBMKP. This paper is organized as follows. Section 2 reviews the literature of some close variants of the GUBMKP then discusses some related tabu search literature. In Section 3 , various approaches for a critical event tabu search heuristic are developed for the GUBMKP. First, choice rules based on Lagrangian relaxation and surrogate constraint information are given. Second, a constraint normalization scheme is utilized to strengthen the surrogate constraint. Finally, a simple trial solution approach is illustrated to accomplish intensification by exploring the neighborhood of critical solutions. The computational results of the various approaches are reported in Section 4 . Section 5 summarizes the contributions of this paper and discusses directions to further enhance the heuristic. 2. Literature review 2.1. Variants of the GUBMKP The knapsack problem is a special case of the GUBMKP ( m =1 and each GUB set has only one variable) and is NP-complete [3] . Problems consisting of multiple knapsack problems are NP-hard in the strong sense [4] , as is the GUBMKP. The GUBMKP is also closely related to some other well known non-standard knapsack problems such as the multidimensional multiple-choice knapsack problem (MMCKP), multiple-choice knapsack problem (MCKP) and the multidimensional knapsack problem (MKP). The GUBMKP can be easily transformed to the multidimensional multiple-choice knapsack problem (MMCKP) by adding a slack variable into each GUB constraint ( Eq. (3) ). Variables in each of the multiple-choice constraints sum to 1 exactly. That is, the MMCKP can be formulated by substituting the inequality (“⩽”) by the strict equality (“=”) for Eq. (3) in the GUBMKP formulation. A Lagrange multiplier approach was used to solve the MMCKP [5] . This approach was first addressed in [6] and was applied to the MKP in [7]  and  [8] . The heuristic in Moser et al. was not able to generate feasible solutions for some of our test problems (with our relatively larger sized problems than theirs) although Moser et al. reported good results in their paper.