June 13, 1939 H. E. BRANDT Ef Ax. 152,057 KNAPSACK SFRAYER Filed Aug. 7, 1937 2 Sheets-Sheet l Jung 13, 1939. H, BRANDT ET AL 2,162,057 KNAPSACK SPRAYER Filed Aug. 7, 1937 l 2 Sheets-sheet 2 Patented June 13, 1939 PATENT oFElcE KNAPSACK SPRAYER Henry E. Brandt and Clifford Zwckey, St. Paul, Minn., assignors to Dobbins Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minn., a corporation of Minnesota Application August 7, 1937, Serial No. 157,942 1 Claim. l (Ci. 299-97) This invention relates to a sprayer for spraying insecticides and other liquid. While the features of the invention may have many applications, in the embodiment of the invention illustrated, the sprayer is shown of the Vtype adapted to be carried on theback of the operator, the same having a discharge means arranged to. be held in one'hand of-the operator and an operating handle arranged to be operated by the other hand of the operator. A sprayer of said general type has been previously used but such sprayers have commonly been equipped with an operating handle disposed only at one side thereof. This made it necessary for the operator always to use l5 the same handfor operating the handle, which handle actuates the spray discharge means. It is desirable to have a sprayer in which the handle may be disposed at either side thereof so that the operator may operate the handle with either hand if desired and so that the sprayer is adapted. for convenient use by a left handed operator. It is an object of this invention therefore, to provide a sprayer of the type having a tank carried on the back of the operator. comprising an operating handle which may be disposed at either side of said tank. It is a further ,object of the invention to provide a sprayer of said type having an outlet for the sprayed material at either side of the tank and a discharge member which may be connected to either of said outlets. It is another object of the invention to provide such a sprayer having a container for a liquid within said tank, a pump for pumping liquid into said container, and a novel and eic'ient mechanism for operating said pump. It is still another object of the invention to provide such a sprayer comprising a casing having a plate or diaphragm extending thereacross some distance above its bottom to form a tank thereabove vand having a pump and operating mechanism therefore disposed below said plate or diaphragm within said casing and a removable cover for the bottom of said casing. A It is a further object of the invention to provide a sprayer having a tank adapted to be carried on the back of the operator and discharge means including a rigid tube and a holding means for said tube on the rear of said tank so arranged that the operator may place the tube in said holder while the tank is carried on his back.l 'I'hese and other objects and advantages of the invention will be fully set forth in the following description made in connection withthe accompanying drawings in which like reference characters refer to similar parts throughout the several views and in which: Fig. 1 is a perspective view showing thel sprayer in operation as carried by the operator;' Fig. 2 is a similar view showing -the spray dis- 5 charge tube held in the holder of the tank; Fig. 3 is a vertical section taken on line 3--3 of Fig. 4 as indicated by the arrows Fig. 4 is a vertical section taken substantially on line 4-4 of Fig. 3; l Fig. 5 is a bottom plan view of the sprayer, portions of the discharge tube and operating handle being broken away, and with the bottom cover removed; and Fig. 6 is a vertical section taken on line 6-6 l5 of Fig. 5 as indicated bythe arrows. - Referring to the drawings, a sprayer is shown comprising a casing I0. While this casing might be variously formed, in the embodiment of the invention illustrated it is shown as of general 20 oblong or kidney shape in horizontal cross sec- -tion, thus' having a side somewhat concave adapted to be adjacent the back of the operator, and an opposite side which is somewhat convex. The top of said casing is shown as having an 25 inturned bead Ilia and a cover I I is provided having an outer curved or trough-like portion IIa. adapted to t over bead Ilia. Said cover is somewhat depressed just inwardly of said bead and has a slightly curved top at its central portion 30 with its convex side upward. A bail handle I2 has end portions engaging the top of cover I I and secured thereto by the rivets I3. Cover II has spaced lugs I4 secured to one side which are pivotally connected by links I5 to lugs IB riveted 35 to cover I0 so that said cover is thus hinged at one side to said casing. Cover II is heldin closed position by a pair of spring clips or clasps I1 pivotally connected to lugs I8 secured to the rear side of casing I0 by rivets or other suitable fas- '40 tening means. A Members I1 are curved to fit over the edge of cover II and have terminal portions- Ila forming finger holds. Handle I2 is perforated at spaced points along one side thereof to have attached thereto the snap hooks I9 which 45 are secured to the ends of straps 20 respectively. Straps 20 have snap hooks 2l secured to their other ends andl adapted to be connected to aperture lugs l22 secured to the front or concave side of casing I0. The straps 20 are arranged to ex- 50 tend over the shoulders and under the arms of the operator so that casing I0 can conveniently and comfortably be carried on the back of the voperator -as shown in Figs. 1 and 2. `Said straps may, if desired, be equipped with length ad- 55 mating meansr (not shown). A plate or aiaphragm 23 extends across casing some distance v Plate 23 is disposedfjust Vabove the upper.one` of two inwardly pressedA groove-forming portions Ilib in casing I8. A similar pair of grooves |0d is formed adjacent the top of casing I8. Plate 23 forms the bottom of a tank which is formed' vin casing |8 above said plate. A container 25 shown as of cylindricalform and having a closed upper end is secured at its bottom in an aperture formed in plate 23 substantially centrally there-` of. A plate 250i general circular vform has a round cylindrical portion 26a iltting in and secured in the bottom of container 25, said` plate also having a peripheral horizontal flange 26h. Another plate 21 of short cylindrical form has a peripheral flange 21a' mating with flange 2Gb and a flexible diaphragm 28 of leather, rubber or similar sheet material is clamped at its edge between said flanges, which flanges are connected by screws 21D. Portion 25aof plate 28 has an upstanding cylindrical portion 25e with an aperture 25d in the top thereof. A plug 28 is threaded intoportion 25e from the bottomthereof, the same having a central aperture therethrough and being formed with a concave recess at the upper end thereof about said aperture, thus forming a valve seat for a ball 38 arranged toA form a. check valve. Another plug 3| is threaded into plates 23 and 25 at'one side of the container 25, which plug has a tcp aperture or passage 3|a extending to a chamber or enlarged passage 3|b therein 'from which lead passages 3|c into the space between plate 25and diaphragm 28. A ball 32 is disped loosely in'chamber 3|b and plug 3| is formed with a concave recess at its topto form v a valve seat for said ball. A tube 38 is connected at one end to container 25 to communicate with the interior thereof and said tube extends outwardly and downwardly through plate 23 to an outlet member 34 secured in the side of casing i8. Another similar tube 35 is connected to container 25 to communicate with the interior thereof and this tube extends outwardly and downwardly through plate 23 and is connected to an loutlet connection 35 secured in the side of casing |8 substantially oppositely across said casing from connection 34. A rod 31 has a reduced threaded portion extending centrally through diaphragm 28 and receives a nut 38 engaging a washer 38 disposed against diaphragm 28. A shallow cup-shaped circular plate 48 has a central semi-spherical portion engaging the bottom of diaphragm 28y and is engaged by the enlarged portion of rod 31 so that diaphragm 28 is clamped between members 33 and 48. Rod 31 has an enlarged portion at its lower Vend having a cylindrical chamber Atherein withv a semi-spherical upper end. A plug 4| is secured in the lower end of rod 31 by the'pin 42, said plug having a semispherical recess in its upperv end., A ball 43a formed on the end oi a rod or bolt 43 is disposed between the upper end of plug 4| and the end of l'the chamber in rod 31 so that said parts form a ball and socket oruniversal joint. Ro'd 43 extends diametrically through a shaft 44 illustrated as atubc and said rod is threaded at its end to-rcceive a nut 45 holding it in place 'in shaft 44. SShaft 44 extends entirely across casing I0 throughout the long dimension lthereof and projects some distance at each side of said casing. VShaft 44 is journalled 'in the wall of casing I8 and also in the plates extending transversely within casing I8 adjacent the end thereof and secured to said casing by a welding or other suitable means. Split keys 41 extend through shaft 44 at the inner sides of plates. respectively and prevent endwise movement of the shaft 44. A pair of plates 48 are riveted to plate 21 and project downwardly therefrom also forming bearings forrshaft 44 which passes therethrough. Shaft `44 has threaded holes vextending diametrically therethrough adjacent each end outside of casing i0 and a handle member 43 shown as formed of a v'rodhas a threaded portion 48a adapted to be screwed into either one of said holes. Rods have enlargedgrip portions 48bat their ends opposite portions 49a. A spray or discharge means is provided comprising a nozzleassembly which may be oi. any ' well known construction for projecting a divergl' ing spray. Nozzle 58 is secured to a rigid tube 5| which 'is inturn secured to a control valve, Control valve 52 has aspring pressed handle 52a adapted to be gripped by the operator. ,When handle 52a is in released position the flow of the liquid is shut oit' and when handle 52a is gripped and moved the flow orA discharge of liquid is permitted. Valve 52 is connected'by a flexible hose or conduit 53 to one of the discharge connections 34 or 35. Conduit 53, has an end connection 53a having a threadedportion which can be screwed into either of the outlet members 34. 'I'he outlet member 34 which is not in use will bel closed by a suitable plug 54. It is desirable at times to carry the sprayer without the necessity of carrying tube 5| and a holding means is accordingly provided for this member on the tank or casing I0. Casing I8 is provided with an inwardly pressed groove forming portion |8c and a resilient clip 55 is secured to casing .|8 below the groove formed by portion |8c, said clip being secured by the. rivets 55. Clip 55 is of considerable width as shown in Figs. l and 2, and is provided with a curved portion 55a having a concave horizontally extending portion disposedopposite the groove in portion |||c. Clip 55 has an upwardly and outwardly extending central terminal portion 55h which facilitates the insertion of tube 5|. 'I'he construction and location of the holding means including clip 55 issuch that the operv ator can grasp tube 5| and conveniently placeit in the holding means while thevcasing |8 is car- ,v ried on his back. Tube5| can likewise be readily removed by the operator. while the casing is carried on his back. Y A vertical partition 51 extends across casing i8 adjacent its middle portion and a short distance from the top thereof. A screen 58 extends The liquid to be sprayed will be poured into the tank above plate 23 by being placed in the compartment formed by partition 51 and which has the screen bottom 58. The liquid will thus be strained while being placed inthe tank. VThe liquid will ilow through passage 3|a 'into the chamber-Mb and will flow into-the space between plate 25 and diaphragm 28 when the latter isin its lower position. Ball 32 does not close 4moved against the seat the passages 3io. The casing I0 will be placed in the position on the back of the operator as shown in Figs. 1 and 2 and supported'thereon by straps 20. 'I'he handle 49 will be placed in the desired end of shaft 44 and will then be in position to be oscllated by one hand of the voperator. The connection 53a will be attached to the outlet 34 at the opposite side of the casing. The operator can now grasp the valve member 52 with his other hand as shown in Fig. 1. It will be noted that handle 49 can be attached to either end of the shaft 44 and that tube 53 can be attached to either side of the casing. The tubes can thus be changed so that the operator can use either hand for operating the pump mechanism. It may be that when the sprayer is being used for long periods the operator may want to change hands on the operation and the facility for placing the handle at either side renders the device suitable for either a right handed or left handed operator. With the device vin position, the operator oscillates handle 49 and this reciprocates thev diaphragm 28. oscillated, member 43 is raised and lowered and this oscillates rod 31 through the connection of the rod 43 therewith. Rod 31 is thus raised and lowered and diaphragm 28 is thus raised and lowered. When diaphragm 2 9 is raised the liquid which has filled the space between the same and plate 26 is forced through plug 29 and aperture 26d into container 25. At this time ball 30 is lifted by the liquid and ball 32 is also lifted and at the top of chamber Sib so as to close passage 3io. Balls 3U and 32 I thus form oppositely acting check valves. Liquid is thus pumped from 4the tank to the container 25, which container will always have in its upper end a certain amount of air. The liquid is thus placed under pressure in container 25 and flows out through either tube 33 or 35 to the outlet 34 or 36 with which conduit 53 is connected. When the operator operates When shaft 44 is handle 52a the ,fluid is forced through the nozzle 50 and sprayed therefrom. 'I'he operator can direct the spray on to the plants as desired by manipulating the rod 5I. As above stated, the operator may place tube 5| in the holder 55 when desired and this can be done conveniently while casing i0 is carried on the back of the operator. Plate 60 can readily be removed by removing the screws 6| to give access to the pump and its operating parts. The pump and said parts are protected from dirt and injury by plate 60. From the above description it is seen that applicant has provided a simple and very convenient spraying device and one.having many desirable features. The same has been amply demonstrated in actual practice and found to be very successful and eillcient. It will, of course, be understood that various changes may be made in the form, details, ar- rangement and proportions of the parts, without departing from the scope of applicants invention, which generally stated, consists in a device capable of carrying out the objects aboveset forth in the parts and combinations of parts disclosed and dened in the appended claim. What is claimed is: A sprayer structure having in combination, a tank adapted to be carried ori the body of the operator, a nozzle equipped discharge tube, flexible means connecting said tube and tank and a holder for said tube comprising an upwardly directed resilient clip secured centrally to the rear side of said tank and spaced therefrom so that said tube may be resiliently held between said clip and tank, said tank having an inwardly extending groove horizontaliy opposite said clip. HENRY E. BRANDT. CLIFFORD ZWICKEY. formed therein and extending