Password:   In the present work, we are interested in the practical behavior of a new fully polynomial time approximation schemes (fptas) to solve the approximation version of the 0–1 multi-objective knapsack problem. The proposed methodology makes use of very general techniques (such as dominance relations in dynamic programming) and thus may be applicable in the implementation of fptas for other problems as well. Extensive numerical experiments on various types of instances in the bi and tri-objective cases establish that our method performs very well both in terms of CPU time and size of solved instances. We point out some reasons for the good practical performance of our algorithm. A comparison with an exact method and the fptas proposed in [Erlebach, T., Kellerer, H., Pferschy, U., 2002. Approximating multiobjective knapsack problems. Management Science 48 (12), 1603–1612] is also performed. Keywords Multi-objective knapsack problem ; Approximation ; Dynamic programming ; Dominance relations ; Combinatorial optimization 1. Introduction In multi-objective combinatorial optimization, a major challenge is to generate either the set of efficient solutions, that have the property that no improvement on any objective is possible without sacrificing on at least another objective, or the set of non-dominated criterion vectors corresponding to their image in the criterion space. The reader can refer to Ehrgott (2005) about multi-objective combinatorial optimization. However, even for moderately-sized problems, it is usually computationally prohibitive to identify the efficient set for two major reasons. First, the number of efficient solutions can be very large. This occurs notably when solving intractable instances of combinatorial multi-objective problems, for which the number of efficient solutions is not polynomial in the size of these instances (see, e.g., Ehrgott, 2005 about the intractability of multi-objective problems). Second, for most multi-objective problems, deciding whether a given solution is dominated is NP -hard, even if the underlying single-objective problem can be solved in a polynomial time (see, e.g., Serafini, 1986 about the NP -hardness of multi-objective problems). To handle these two difficulties, researchers have been interested in developing approximation algorithms with provable a priori guarantee such as fully polynomial time approximation schemes (fptas). Indeed, an fptas computes, for a given accuracy ε>0 ε > 0 , in a running time that is polynomial both in the size of the input and in 1/ε 1 / ε , an (1+ε) ( 1 + ε ) -approximation, that is a subset of solutions which contains, for each efficient solution, a solution that is at most at a factor (1+ε) ( 1 + ε ) on all objective values. This is made possible since it has been pointed out in Papadimitriou and Yannakakis (2000) that, under certain general assumptions, there always exists an (1+ε) ( 1 + ε ) -approximation, with any given accuracy ε>0 ε > 0 , whose size is polynomial both in the size of the instance and in 1/ε 1 / ε . Thus, using an fptas for solving a multi-objective problem has two main advantages: on the one hand it provides us with an efficient algorithm to compute an approximation with a guaranteed accuracy and on the other hand it computes an approximation of reasonable size. Nevertheless, in this stream, researchers are usually motivated by the theoretical question of proving or disproving the existence of an fptas for a given problem ( Warburton, 1987  and  Erlebach et al., 2002 ) or for a class of problems ( Safer and Orlin, 1995a , Safer and Orlin, 1995b , Papadimitriou and Yannakakis, 2000  and  Angel et al., 2003 ). Thus, practical implementations of fptas are cruelly lacking and most of the schemes proposed in the literature are not efficient in practice. We consider in this paper the 0–1 multi-objective knapsack problem which has been shown to admit an fptas in Safer and Orlin, 1995a  and  Safer and Orlin, 1995b and in Erlebach et al. (2002) . Our perspective, however, is to propose another fptas focusing on its practical behavior. The main idea of our approach, based on dynamic programming, relies on the use of several complementary dominance relations to discard partial solutions. In a previous work ( Bazgan et al., 2009 ), such techniques have been proved to be extremely efficient to solve the exact version of this problem. Extensive numerical experiments on various types of instances in the bi and tri-objective cases are reported and establish that our method performs very well both in terms of CPU time and size of solved instances (up to 20 000 items in less than 1 hour in the bi-objective case). We compare our approach with the exact method of Bazgan et al. (2009) , which is the most effective exact method currently known and with the fptas proposed in Erlebach et al. (2002) . In our experiments, we point out some reasons for the good practical performance of our algorithm that may be applicable to other fptas. Indeed, since our methodology relies on very general techniques (such as dominance relations in dynamic programming), it may be applicable in the implementation of fptas for other problems as well. This paper is organized as follows: in Section 2 , we review basic concepts about multi-objective optimization and approximation, and formally define the 0–1 multi-objective knapsack problem. Section 3 presents the dynamic programming approach using dominance relations. Section 4 is devoted to the presentation of the dominance relations. Computational experiments and results are reported in Section 5 . Conclusions are provided in a final section.