Password: The 0-1 quadratic knapsack problem (QKP) consists in maximizing a positive quadratic pseudo-Boolean function subject to a linear capacity constraint. We present in this paper a new method, based on Lagrangian decomposition, for computing an upper bound of QKP. We report computational experiments which demonstrate the sharpness of the bound (relative error very often less than 1%) for large size instances (up to 500 variables). Keywords Quadratic programming ; 0-1 Quadratic knapsack problem ; Lagrangian decomposition ; Bounds ; Computational experiments 1. Introduction A quadratic pseudo-Boolean function is defined as where are real coefficients. The 0-1 quadratic knapsack problem (QKP) consists in maximizing a positive quadratic pseudo-Boolean function subject to a linear capacity constraint. This problem was introduced by Gallo et al. (1980) and can be expressed as follows: where the coefficients c i , a i ( i =1,…, n ) and c ij (1⩽ i  <  j ⩽ n ) are non-negative integers and b is an integer such as 0< b <∑ n i =1 a i . QKP may represent many practical situations ( Laughhunn, 1970 ; Witzzgall, 1975 ; Gallo et al., 1980 ; Billionnet and Calmels, 1996 ). Several classical graph problems can be formulated as QKP. Consider, for example, the graph bipartitioning problem: given a graph G =( V , E ) of n vertices 1, 2,…, n , where V is the set of vertices and E the set of edges, and given a positive integer l i,j for each edge [ i , j ] ∈  E , find a partition of V into two disjoint sets V 1 and V 2 such that | V 1 |= k ,( k ∈{2,…, n −2}) and such that if E ′ ⊂ E is the set of edges that have their two endpoints in two different sets, then ∑ [ i , j ]∈ E ′ l i , j is minimal. We may formulate the bipartitioning problem as the following constrained quadratic 0-1 program in which x i =1 if and only if vertex i belongs to V 1 : where q i =∑ j |[ i , j ]∈ E l i , j and q ij is equal to zero if [ i , j ]∉ E and to . Noting that x i = k −∑ j ∈{1,…, n }\{ i } x j and since , the optimal solutions of this problem are exactly the ones of the following problem (Pb2) which sature the capacity constraint where . Note that it is always possible to construct from any optimal solution of (Pb2) an optimal solution saturing the constraint. We recognize (Pb2) as a QKP. See another example of graph problem which can be formulated as a particular QKP: consider a graph G =( V , E ) where V is the set of vertices and E the set of edges. Find a subgraph of G with k vertices which maximizes the number of edges. This problem is called k -clustering and is NP-complete in general ( Corneil and Perl, 1984  and  Rader, 1997b ). QKP is also interesting because it can be viewed as the simplest constrained integer non-linear programming problem. A few authors have proposed algorithms for QKP. The algorithm proposed by Gallo et al., 1980 is of branch and bound type. The upper bound is obtained by replacing the objective function f by a linear function g which dominates f in all feasible points and by solving a linear knapsack problem. This upper bound has been improved by Körner, 1986 . Chaillou et al., 1986 have also proposed a branch and bound algorithm for QKP. The computation of an upper bound is based on a Lagrangian relaxation. This computation has been improved by Gallo et al., 1989 . Valid inequalities and facets for a linear formulation of QKP are described by Johnson et al., 1993 . De Farias et al., 1993 describe three Lagrangian decompositions and present numerical results for problems up to 25 variables. Michelon and Veuilleux, 1996 also use Lagrangian decomposition and a heuristic method for solving the dual problem. They propose a branch and bound algorithm based on the obtained bound. Note that several authors try to fix a maximum of variables before the branch and bound by using the upper bound. Billionnet and Calmels, 1996 compute an upper bound by a cut generation algorithm associated with a linear formulation of QKP, try to fix some variables and use the obtained results to find the optimal solution. Helmberg et al., 1996 propose a semi-definite programming approach to QKP and discuss possible strengthenings of linear relaxations by polyhedral cutting plane approaches. Hammer and Rader, 1997 have proposed approximate and exact algorithms for QKP. They use in every node of the branch and bound tree a three-step procedure. The aim of this procedure is to fix the values of some of the variables by the use of order relations, Lagrangian techniques and constraint pairing. In two recent research reports, Rader (1997a), Rader (1997b) introduces a new class of valid inequalities and facets of the QKP-polytope and also characterizes several classes of facets of this polytope. His study does not mention computational results. We present in this paper a new method for computing an upper bound of QKP which is based on the following points: A feasible solution is determined by the algorithm of Billionnet and Calmels, 1996 . This computation is composed of two stages. The first stage uses the greedy heuristic presented by Chaillou et al., 1986 ; the second stage consists of trying to improve the obtained feasible solution by a fill-up and exchange procedure as proposed by Gallo et al., 1980 . The computational experiments show that this algorithm always gives a feasible solution very close to the optimum. This solution is quickly obtained (less than 1 s of CPU time is required on a HP 9000 workstation for large size instances). An upper bound is computed by a new Lagrangian decomposition method inspired by the decomposition method proposed by Chardaire and Sutter, 1995 for minimizing an unconstrained quadratic pseudo-Boolean function. Computational experiments are promising. The proposed method allows us to find approximate solutions with a relative error less than 1%. For instances involving up to 500 variables we find such approximate solutions within 60 min of CPU running time on a HP 9000 workstation.