Volume 57 of the series Biotechnology in Agriculture and Forestry pp 165-181 KNApSAcK: A Comprehensive Species-Metabolite Relationship Database Y. Shinbo Affiliated with New Energy and Industrial Technology Development Organization , Y. Nakamura Affiliated with Department of Bioinformatics and Genomics, Graduate School of Information Science, Nara Institute of Science and Technology (NAIST) Ehime Women’s College , M. Altaf-Ul-Amin Affiliated with Department of Bioinformatics and Genomics, Graduate School of Information Science, Nara Institute of Science and Technology (NAIST) , H. Asahi Affiliated with Department of Bioinformatics and Genomics, Graduate School of Information Science, Nara Institute of Science and Technology (NAIST) , K. Kurokawa Affiliated with Department of Bioinformatics and Genomics, Graduate School of Information Science, Nara Institute of Science and Technology (NAIST) , M. Arita Affiliated with Department of Computational Biology, Graduate School of Frontier Sciences, The University of Tokyo , K. Saito Affiliated with Metabolomics Research Group, RIKEN Plant Science Center , D. Ohta Affiliated with Department of Plant Genes and Physiology, Graduate School of Agriculture and Biological Sciences, Osaka Prefecture University , D. Shibata Affiliated with Kazusa DNA Research Institute and 1 more , S. Kanaya Affiliated with Department of Bioinformatics and Genomics, Graduate School of Information Science, Nara Institute of Science and Technology (NAIST) Show less Conclusion and Remarks We prepared a database, KNApSAcK for accumulation and search of metabolite-species relationships. The power-law distribution observed in the present study is likely to be associated with research activity for finding novel metabolites from nature. In addition, it seems to be derived from searching rare metabolites from the organisms originally exhibiting power-law in the degree distribution of their metabolic networks. This suggests that the database contains chemical diversity of metabolites which occurred through evolution of species. Graph clustering is shown to be useful to extract taxonomic relationships on the basis of common metabolites. As we are continuously accumulating metabolite-species pairs in the database, we continue to advance our understanding of species-metabolite relations in taxonomic hierarchy. Furthermore, we plan to add an option for searching metabolite structures by entering partial structures, which will be helpful for metabolite research.