Password: In recent years, many new technological solutions have been introduced, aiming to improve the ability of buildings to satisfy a variety of needs of human beings and the environment. As a consequence, designing an optimal building has become more challenging than it has been before. In this article, a multi-criteria “knapsack” model is proposed to help designers to select the most feasible renovation actions in the conceptual phase of a renovation project. Firstly, the methodology is described. Then, a case study is presented. Finally, advantages and disadvantages of the methodology are considered and needs for future research are suggested. Keywords Building renovation ; Decision support systems ; Multi-criteria decision-making ; Expert systems 1. Introduction Designing an optimal building has become more challenging than it has been before. Three typical challenges can be seen. The first challenge is associated with the fact, that decisions concerning building design are mainly made by a design team consisting of a design group (including at least an architect, an HVAC engineer, an electricity engineer and a structural engineer), a real estate owner (a client) and a contractor. The question is how to find a consensus between the members of a design team taking into account as many points of view as possible [1] . A practical solution of this problem is presented for example by Tanimoto et al. [2] , who consider the design process of a building as an iterative process with several actors linked to their opinions. The second challenge is associated with sustainable development [3] . According to the definition by the World Commission on Environment and Development, sustainable development is regarded as “Development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs” [4] . Sustainable development in the context of construction industry simply means making buildings better satisfy the needs of human beings and the environment [5] . In practice, sustainability is usually illustrated using numerical indicators providing information about the status of a phenomenon, environment or area. An example of a list of indicators describing sustainability of buildings and their technological systems, called VTTProP, is presented by Häkkinen et al. [6] . The sustainability of buildings and their systems is usually defined by means of conflicting criteria. The challenge is to make an optimal decision on the basis of these criteria. Multi-criteria decision-making (MCDM) methods are usually presented as a solution of this kind of problems, like has been done for example by Andresen [7] . The third challenge is an increasing amount of technological solutions on the market. In order to design a building with maximum sustainability, designers have to consider effects of more and more technological options. Dealing with this problem has not been such a popular subject in earlier studies, although it has been handled for example by Flourentzou et al. [8] , and Rosenfeld and Shohet [9] . The introduction of new, fast personal computers on everyone's desk makes it possible to handle the problem in the form of a combinatorial optimization problem. This approach seems to be new in the field of building design. In Linköping, Sweden, some studies have been carried out concerning this issue. In these studies, however, the multi-criteria and multi-perspective nature of the problem have not been dealt with [10] . A great potential exists for the introduction of new technologies through renovation projects, because almost half of construction industry in developed countries is directed to the existing building stock [11] . The concept “renovation” is usually divided under two categories: retrofit and refurbishment. The concept “retrofit” is generally used to identify actions that are required to bring a building into the framework of new requirements. The purpose of “refurbishment”, instead, is to bring a building back to its original state [8] . In this paper, a multi-criteria “knapsack” model is proposed to help designers select the most feasible renovation actions in the conceptual phase of a renovation project. Firstly, the methodology is described. Then, a case study is presented dealing with the retrofit project of a residential building in Finland. Finally, some needs for future research are suggested as well as advantages and disadvantages of this decision-support method are concerned. 2. Theory and methodology 2.1. General review In this study, the renovation of a building is regarded as a set of single actions that are expected to improve the sustainability of a building. Substituting a traditional oil heating system by a fuel-cell-based combined heat and power system is a good example of a modern renovation action hypothetically improving the sustainability of a building. Decision-making concerning selection of renovation actions as far has been studied for example by Rosenfeld et al. [9] . In that study, the deterioration state of building parts has been assumed to determine the need for renovation. The method is rational and reasonable in the context of cases that are refurbishment projects by nature. Related to the challenges concerning an optimal building design also in the case of retrofit projects, the following improvements can be proposed. Firstly, conflicting preferences inside the group of decision-makers should be taken into account. Secondly, the additional utility that can be achieved in the context of sustainability by selecting certain renovation actions should be better illustrated. Thirdly, the automation could be improved from ‘semi-automated’ level to ‘fully automated’ level by applying a suitable optimization model and a modern personal computer. In this chapter, a new approach is presented how to help a design team to find the most sustainable renovation actions in a renovation project. The decision-making process, particularly during the conceptual phase of design, can be seen as an iterative and cyclical process (see Fig. 1 ). Typically, designers manually generate two or more design alternatives (alternative sets of renovation actions in this context) to be evaluated by the design team [2] . This paper argues that generating the design alternatives as well as evaluating them can be automated by applying the knapsack model. Generally speaking, this is a case of portfolio optimization. The model presented in the article is applicable to various decision-making tools as well as expert systems. Fig. 1.  An iterative, cyclical decision-making process at conceptual phase of design [2] . 2.2. Description of the problem 2.2.1. Mathematical expression The methodology presented in this paper can be described using a mathematical expression that follows the traditional “knapsack problem”: which renovation actions should be selected in order to achieve the best possible improvement in the sustainability of the building that is to be renovated? If an additive “knapsack” approach is applied in the context of the utility theory, the mathematical form will be as follows. Assume we have: decision variables (possible renovation actions) a 1 ,… a i ,… a n a i =1, if action a i is carried out, else a i =0 Objective function will be then equation ( 1 ) where S i =utility score achieved by selecting the renovation action a i . The problem will be at least subject to constraints a i ∈{0,1} equation ( 2 )