8- 1950 H. ADLERSTEIN 2,517,757 KNAPSACK Filed Dec. 5, 1946 2 Sheets-Sheet 1 III II...- IIIIIIII'III. I IIIIIIIIII I I... l i l IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII I I llIIIII'II'IIIIIIII'IIII II I BYa- A TOE/VEYS Patented Aug. 8, 1950 UNITED STATES PATENT OFFICE KNA sACK' Herman Adlerstein, New York, N. Y. Application c mber 5, 1946, serial No. 714,322 iolaim. (c1.312 3) This invention relates to knapsacks and the like, and has for one of its objects the provision of such a device which is provided with vertically spaced apart horizontally extending shelves, in order to provide a neat and systematic manner for packing the various articles carried therein and in order that the articles so packed may be more readily discernable for withdrawal. Another object of the invention is to provide such a knapsack with a light tubular or wire frame which is provided with shelf supporting sub-frames, the said frame being either fixed to the knapsack or removably maintained therein. A further object is to connect the front wall of the knapsack to the end walls by means of slide fasteners so that shelved interior is readily accessible. Another object is to produce a device of the character described in which the maximum simplicity of construction and operation is secured. Other objects and advantages will appear as the nature of the improvements is better understood, the invention consisting substantially in the novel arrangement and co-relation of parts herein fully described, and illustrated in the accompanying drawings, wherein similar reference characters are used to denote corresponding parts throughout the several views, and then finally pointed out and specifically defined and indicated in the appended claim. The disclosure made the basis of exemplifying the present inventive concept suggests a practical embodiment thereof, but the invention is not to be restricted to the exact details of this disclosure, and the latter, therefore, is to be understood from an illustrative, rather than a restrictive standpoint. In carrying out the objects of the invention, it was found advantageous to provide a bag or knapsack the interior of which is subdivided into compartments by means of a framework having vertically spaced apart shelves either secured to the rear wall of the knapsack by sewing or by snap fasteners. It was further found desirable to join the front wall of the bag to the end walls thereof by means of slide fasteners or zippers so as to provide ready access to said shelves. The invention will be more readily understood from the following detailed description when taken in connection with the accompanying drawings wherein- Figure 1 is a perspective view in open position and partly broken away of a knapsack made in 2 accordance with one form of the present invention; Figure 2 is fragmental sectional view taken along line 2-2 of Figure 1; and Figure 3 is a fragmental perspective view of a modified form of the invention. Referring now to the drawings in detail, the numeral 5 indicates a knapsack having a bottom wall 6 from which there extends upwardly a front wall 1, rear wall 8 and end walls 9 and Ill. The front wall 1 is preferably secured or connected to the end walls 9 and Ill by means of slide fasteners comprising the usual strips of complementary separable fastener elements I I operated for opening and closing by means of a slide l2. The end walls 9 and I0 may be provided with respective extensions l3 and M and the rear wall with a lid l5 for covering the top of the bag thus formed. In order that the interior of the bag may be subdivided into compartments 46 for enhancing the packing of the bag and for enabling the separation of the various articles one from the other, there is provided a frame-work H which may be made from metal tubing or wire. The said frame-work preferably comprises vertical corner posts It connected together with a plurality of spaced apart rectangular frames 19. The compartments I6 are formed by means of fabric shelf-forming strips 20 secured to the frames l9 intermediate the top and bottom frames. The said strips may be secured about the said frames by rows of stitching 2| and may have rear flaps 22 sewn to the rear wall 8 by stitching 23:. As above described, the shelf-carrying frame is permanently attached to the bag, by means of the stitching 23. It may however be desirable to removably secure the said shelf structure to the bag, for this purpose the flaps 22 of the shelves 2!) are provided with snap fastener elements 24 which cooperate with complementary snap fastener elements not shown on the rear bag wall 8. With the releasable feature between the shelfflaps and rear walls, the slide fasteners between the front and end walls may if desirable be omitted, although for the sake of convenience it is preferred to retain at least one of said slide fasteners. It is apparent that the specific forms shown above have been given by way of illustration and not by way of limitation; and that the structure above described is subject to wide variation and modification without departing from the scope or intent of the invention, all of which variations and modifications are to be included within the scope of the present invention. What is claimed is: A knapsack comprising a, flexible bag, and a rigid shelf structure removably disposed in the bag; the bag comprising a bottom member and a rear member and end members secured along corresponding edges and a front member, the base of they front member being secured to the corresponding edge of the bottom member and means separably connecting the front member to the end members along corresponding edges, the end and rear members having along the upper edges coacting extensions removably disposed over the top of the bag; the shelf structure comprising upright corner posts, vertically spaced rigid frames supported on the corner posts, shelf forming sheets of flexible material stretched over some of said frames and secured thereabout, and means removably securing one or more of said sheets to the bag. HERMAN ADLERSTEIN. UNITED STATES PATENTS