Password:   This paper investigates solving the knapsack problem with imprecise weight coefficients using genetic algorithms. This work is based on the assumption that each weight coefficient is imprecise due to decimal truncation or coefficient rough estimation by the decision-maker. To deal with this kind of imprecise data, fuzzy sets provide a powerful tool to model and solve this problem. We investigate the possibility of using genetic algorithms in solving the fuzzy knapsack problem without defining membership functions for each imprecise weight coefficient. The proposed approach simulates a fuzzy number by distributing it into some partition points. We use genetic algorithms to evolve the values in each partition point so that the final values represent the membership grade of a fuzzy number. The empirical results show that the proposed approach can obtain very good solutions within the given bound of each imprecise weight coefficient than the fuzzy knapsack approach. The fuzzy genetic algorithm concept approach is different, but gives better results than the traditional fuzzy approach. Keywords Genetic algorithms ; Fuzzy sets ; Knapsack problem ; Fuzzy knapsack problem 1. Introduction The knapsack problem derives its name from finding a combination of different objects that a hitchhiker chooses for his knapsack in which the total value of all chosen objects is maximized. A similar problem very often appears in business, combinatorics, complexity theory, cryptography and applied mathematics. Knapsack problems have been intensively studied, especially in the last decade, attracting both theorists and experimentalists [11] , [13]  and  [14] . The theoretical interest arises mainly from their structure in which more complex optimization problems can be solved through a series of knapsack-type subproblems. From the practical point of view, these problems can model many industrial situations, such as capital budgeting, or cargo loading [2] , [10]  and  [12] . As a result, a knapsack may correspond to a truck, a ship, a silicon chip, or a resource and the problem is to package these items to produce a variety of applications for cargo loading, cutting stock, bin packing, and economic planning [15]  and  [16] . In this study we are interested in investigating how to deal with knapsack problem imprecise data that would occur in practical situations. For example, the decision-maker (DM) has only a vague knowledge about the objects, which uses rough estimation and fuzzy linguistics, or decimal truncation for the problem weight coefficients. Therefore, we consider the weight of each object in the knapsack problem to be imprecise, which may be in the vicinity of a fixed value or substantially less than or greater than that fixed value. To deal with this kind of imprecise data, fuzzy sets provide a powerful tool to model and solve the problem [9] . The fuzzy concept is stated briefly as follows. For each weight w i , i = 1 , … , n , the DM should determine an interval [ w i - Δ i 1 , w i + Δ i 2 ] , 0 ⩽ Δ i 1 < w i and 0 < Δ i 2 , to represent an acceptable range for the weight of each object. If an estimate of the weight is exactly w i , then the acceptable grade for that weight will be 1. Otherwise, the acceptable grade will get smaller when an estimate approaches one of the ends of the interval, i.e. w i -Δ i1 w i - Δ i 1 or w i +Δ i2 w i + Δ i 2 . Accordingly, the DM needs to determine an appropriate estimate for each weight from the interval [w i -Δ i1 ,w i +Δ i2 ] [ w i - Δ i 1 , w i + Δ i 2 ] . This leads to the use of fuzzy numbers, w ˜ i = ( w i - Δ i 1 , w i , w i + Δ i 2 ) , for each weight coefficient in the knapsack problems. The advantage of using fuzzy model is that it is much easier for the DM to specify a range value than giving an exact value for each weight coefficient. Hence, we proposed a fuzzy knapsack model in [9] that uses the signed-distance ranking method for defuzzifying the fuzzy weight coefficients and the fuzzy capacity to derive a defuzzified fuzzy knapsack problem. In this paper, however, we formulate another knapsack problem with imprecise weight coefficients from the previously proposed fuzzy knapsack model. We investigate the application of genetic algorithms (GAs) for the possibility of solving knapsack problem with imprecise weight coefficients without defining the membership functions for each imprecise weight coefficient. In this approach, we simulate a fuzzy number by distributing it into some partition points, and then use GAs to evolve the values in each partition point so that the final values represent the membership grade of that fuzzy number. When GAs are applied to solve the fuzzy knapsack problem, the computation of fuzzy equations does not require the extension principle or interval arithmetic and α -cuts. Instead, GAs use only the usual evolution. The empirical results show that the proposed approach can obtain very good solutions within the given bound for each weight coefficient so that it accomplishes flexible item packing of the knapsack problem. Consequently, the proposed GA approach is a sound and flexible way for specifying the imprecise weight coefficients while dealing with the knapsack problem in practical situations.