Password: This paper presents a new multiobjective genetic algorithm based on the Tchebycheff scalarizing function, which aims to generate a good approximation of the nondominated solution set of the multiobjective problem. The algorithm performs several stages, each one intended for searching potentially nondominated solutions in a different part of the Pareto front. Pre-defined weight vectors act as pivots to define the weighted-Tchebycheff scalarizing functions used in each stage. Therefore, each stage focuses the search on a specific region, leading to an iterative approximation of the entire nondominated set. This algorithm, called MOTGA (Multiple objective Tchebycheff based Genetic Algorithm) has been designed to the multiobjective multidimensional 0/1 knapsack problem, for which a dedicated routine to repair infeasible solutions was implemented. Computational results are presented and compared with the outcomes of other evolutionary algorithms. Keywords Genetic algorithms ; Multiple objective programming ; Knapsack problem 1. Introduction Since the first developments on multiobjective metaheuristics in the 1980's, many metaheuristic approaches, namely evolutionary algorithms, have been proposed for dealing with multiobjective problems. In the recent years there has been a growing interest in this field, and many multiobjective metaheuristics have been developed and proved to be successful in practice. Most of the research on this area has been concentrated on evolutionary algorithms. Deb [1] and Coello [2] report several multiobjective evolutionary approaches and the site [3] includes a vast list of bibliographic references on this field. Also, the overview of Jones et al. [4] indicates that 70% of the articles utilize genetic algorithms as primary metaheuristic technique, 24% simulated annealing, and 6% tabu search. Most of the multiobjective metaheuristic algorithms are generating methods since they aim at generating an approximation of the entire set of the nondominated (Pareto-optimal or efficient) solutions, while few of them are interactive methods (e.g. [5] , [6]  and  [7] ). Concerning evolutionary algorithms, two classes of approaches can be basically distinguished: those that are based on the dominance relation and those that are based on scalarizing functions. The former type, which has been more often considered, uses the dominance relation to primarily base the fitness assignment. They usually incorporate other sub-criteria to provide a more fine-grained discrimination of the individuals (solutions). The second type of approaches considers scalarizing functions that temporarily aggregate the several objective functions. Depending on the approach, a scalarizing function can be stable during several generations or can vary from one iteration to the next of the algorithm. In the design of a generating algorithm, the scalarizing functions are just tools used in the search for approximate nondominated solutions, so their use has not to do with modeling the decision maker's preferences in the form of a single aggregate function [8] . In this paper, we propose a new multiobjective genetic algorithm, which is based on the Tchebycheff scalarizing function. For short, we shall designate by MOTGA this M ̲ ultiple O ̲ bjective T ̲ chebycheff-based G ̲ enetic A ̲ lgorithm. The main purpose of MOTGA is to create a good approximation set of the nondominated solution set, assuring both convergence and diversity of the obtained solutions. The current version of the algorithm is devoted to the multiobjective multidimensional 0/1 0 / 1 knapsack problem (MOMKP) since a specialized routine to repair infeasible solutions has been implemented. Nevertheless, the algorithm employs a general schema that can be easily adapted to other multiobjective linear programs with binary variables. The MOMKP has been widely studied by other authors and several experimental comparisons of different metaheuristic approaches on MOMKP have been reported in the literature. Some problem instances and results of those studies are available in the Internet. These benchmarks can be very useful to validate new meta-heuristics. Zitzler and Thiele [9] performed a comparative study of five different multiple objective evolutionary algorithms on MOMKP, and also introduced a new method called Strength Pareto Evolutionary Algorithm (SPEA) that outperformed the other methods. Knowles and Corne [10] used the same set of MOMKP instances to compare the Memetic Pareto Archived Evolution Strategy (M-PAES), of their own, with the Random Directions Multiple Objective Genetic Local Searcher (RD-MOGLS) algorithm of Jaszkiewicz [11] . The authors concluded that, although both algorithms performed well, M-PAES was found to be superior overall on those experiments, and its performance improved relatively to RD-MOGLS with increasing problem size (number of items). Nonetheless, RD-MOGLS seemed capable of generating solutions over a wider range in each of the objectives than M-PAES, and on the four-objective problems there was no discernible difference in performance between the two algorithms.