Password: We present a survey of algorithms and applications for the nonlinear knapsack problem (or, the nonlinear resource allocation problem). In its most general form, the nonlinear knapsack problem will be defined as a nonlinear optimization problem with just one constraint, bounds on the variables, and, in some cases, a set of specially structured constraints such as generalized upper bounds (GUBs). This problem is encountered either directly, or as a subproblem, in a variety of applications, including production planning, financial modeling, stratified sampling, and capacity planning in manufacturing, health care, and computer networks. By taking advantage of the special structure of the problem, efficient solution methods can be developed. Problem classes addressed here include continuous and integer problems, convex and nonconvex problems, separable and nonseparable problems, and problems with additional specially structured constraints. Keywords Nonlinear knapsack problem ; Nonlinear resource allocation problem ; Nonlinear programming ; Integer programming 1. Introduction In this paper we present a survey of algorithms and applications for the nonlinear knapsack problem, also known as the nonlinear resource allocation problem. Many versions of the problem have been addressed in the literature, but the defining characteristic is a nonlinear optimization problem with one constraint. Variations include continuous or integer variables, convex or nonconvex functions, separable or nonseparable functions, and, in some cases, additional specially structured constraints such as bounds on the variables or generalized upper bound (GUB) constraints. We discuss solution methods for all of these problem classes. Depending on which characteristics a particular problem possesses, efficient solution methods can be developed that take advantage of the corresponding special structure. Of course, any nonlinear optimization method developed for problems with multiple constraints could be used to solve the nonlinear knapsack problem. However, specialized algorithms are much faster and more reliable than standard nonlinear programming software. For example, Bretthauer and Shetty (1997) developed a specialized algorithm for a class of continuous quadratic problems and found their method to be up to 4000 times faster than the general purpose reduced gradient software LSGRG ( Smith and Lasdon, 1992 ). The nonlinear knapsack problem has a variety of applications, including financial models ( Mathur et al., 1983 ), production and inventory management ( Ziegler, 1982 ; Ventura and Klein, 1988 ; Maloney and Klein, 1993 ; Bretthauer et al., 1994 ), stratified sampling ( Cochran, 1963 ), and the optimal design of queueing network models in manufacturing ( Bitran and Tirupati, 1989a ), computer systems ( Gerla and Kleinrock, 1977 ), and health care. (Several of these applications are discussed later in the paper.) Although the nonlinear knapsack problem has many applications, most of the knapsack and resource allocation literature address much more specialized versions of the problem than studied here. For example, there are large bodies of literature focusing on knapsack problems with a linear objective and a linear constraint ( Martello and Toth, 1990 ), and knapsack problems with a separable convex nonlinear objective function and a simple linear constraint requiring the sum of the variables to equal a constant (i.e., ∑ i =1 n x i = b ) ( Michaeli and Pollatschek, 1977 ; Zipkin, 1980 ; Ibaraki and Katoh, 1988 ; Hochbaum, 1994 ). The book by Ibaraki and Katoh (1988) provides an excellent discussion of solution methods for these simpler nonlinear problems that have the constraint ∑ i =1 n x i = b , so we do not review this literature here. Many applications require the use of a nonlinear constraint, such as capacity planning in manufacturing systems, capacity planning in computer networks, and stratified sampling. Thus, we focus on the more general version of the problem. The paper is organized as follows. Section 2 presents a general formulation of the nonlinear knapsack problem and defines the problem types to be surveyed. 3 , 4 , 5 , 6  and  7 discuss solution methods for the following classes of problems: the continuous convex problem ( Section 3 ), the integer convex problem ( Section 4 ), the nonconvex problem ( Section 5 ), problems with additional specially structured constraints ( Section 6 ), and the nonseparable problem ( Section 7 ). Section 8 considers computational issues. Section 9 discusses and formulates several applications of the nonlinear knapsack problem. Section 10 contains some concluding remarks and directions for future research. 2. Problem formulations We consider various versions of the nonlinear knapsack problem, all of which are special cases of the following general problem (P): We assume , f ( x ) and g ( x ) are continuous and differentiable functions on , b is a real constant, and the set S is nonempty. Typically, S will include a set of specially structured constraints, such as integer variables, bounds on the variables, and/or GUB constraints. The defining feature of the nonlinear knapsack problem is the single constraint g ( x )⩽ b and, potentially, other simple constraints in S with special structure. By specifying the properties of the functions f ( x ) and g ( x ) and the set S , the classes of nonlinear knapsack problems considered in this paper can be obtained. In particular, the paper addresses the following problems: 1. Convex , separable , continuous : f ( x ) and g ( x ) are convex separable functions, S includes bounds on the continuous variables ( Section 3 ). 2. Convex , separable , integer : Same as problem type 1 except S includes integrality conditions on the variables ( Section 4 ). 3. Nonconvex , separable ( continuous and integer ): f ( x ) and g ( x ) are nonconvex separable functions, S includes bounds on the variables ( Section 5 ). 4. Convex , separable , additional block diagonal ( or GUB ) constraints ( continuous and integer ): Same as problem type 1 or 2 except S also includes block diagonal or GUB constraints ( Section 6 ). 5. Convex , nonseparable ( continuous and integer ): f ( x ) and g ( x ) are convex nonseparable functions, S includes bounds on the variables ( Section 7 ). 3. The continuous convex problem We begin by considering the problem with a separable convex nonlinear objective function, a separable convex nonlinear constraint, and bounded continuous variables. The continuous convex problem will be denoted as (CP) and will be defined as follows: Assume all objective and constraint functions are convex and differentiable. In terms of the general problem (P), we obtain problem (CP) by defining f ( x )=∑ i =1 n f i ( x i ), g ( x )=∑ i =1 n g i ( x i ), and , where l i and u i are real constants satisfying l i < u i for all i .