Password: In this paper, we solve instances of the multiobjective multiconstraint (or multidimensional) knapsack problem (MOMCKP) from the literature, with three objective functions and three constraints. We use exact as well as approximate algorithms. The exact algorithm is a properly modified version of the multicriteria branch and bound (MCBB) algorithm, which is further customized by suitable heuristics. Three branching heuristics and a more general purpose composite branching and construction heuristic are devised. Comparison is made to the published results from another exact algorithm, the adaptive ε -constraint method [Laumanns, M., Thiele, L., Zitzler, E., 2006. An efficient, adaptive parameter variation scheme for Metaheuristics based on the epsilon-constraint method. European Journal of Operational Research 169, 932–942], using the same data sets. Furthermore, the same problems are solved using standard multiobjective evolutionary algorithms (MOEA), namely, the SPEA2 and the NSGAII. The results from the exact case show that the branching heuristics greatly improve the performance of the MCBB algorithm, which becomes faster than the adaptive ε -constraint. Regarding the performance of the MOEA algorithms in the specific problems, SPEA2 outperforms NSGAII in the degree of approximation of the Pareto front, as measured by the coverage metric (especially for the largest instance). Keywords Branch and bound ; Knapsack problem ; Multiobjective ; Evolutionary algorithms The knapsack problem is a widely-studied combinatorial optimization problem that has applications in many fields ( Martello and Toth, 1990 ). Mathematical Programming, Dynamic Programming and Metaheuristics are the most common tools for solving such problems. In the last decade, the multicriteria formulation of the knapsack problem (multiobjective knapsack problem, MOKP) and the construction of the corresponding Pareto front have attracted significant attention from the Operational Research and the Computational Science community. In the present paper we will deal with the most complicated case where multiple constraints are present, giving rise to the multiobjective multiconstraint knapsack problems – MOMCKP ( Jaszkiewicz, 2004 , Erlebach et al., 2002 , Zitzler and Thiele, 1999  and  Klamroth and Wiecek, 2000 ). In the previous definition, the term “multiconstraint” may also be found as “multidimensional”. Specifically, we are interested in solving: equation ( 1 ) max Px st Wx ≤ c , x = ( x 1 , . . . , x n ) T ∈ { 0 , 1 } n , P ∈ R k × n , W ∈ R m × n , c = ( c 1 , . . . , c m ) T ∈ R m . A solution x ′ is Pareto optimal (nondominated, efficient) if and only if it is feasible and there is no other feasible x such that p i x  ⩾  p i x ′ for i  = 1, 2, …,  k with at least one strict inequality. The set of the Pareto optimal solutions is coined as the Pareto set (in the decision variable space). In the case of MOMCKP it is actually the set of the nondominated binary vectors x whose corresponding images Px into R k comprise the Pareto front (in the criteria space). Multiple constraints and multiple objectives are degenerated to the conventional knapsack problem if the W and P matrices are simply n dimensional line-vectors, namely, if m  = 1 and k  = 1, accordingly. In this paper, we deal with the case where k  = 3, m  = 3 and n is varying from 10 to 50 according to the data sets available in the literature ( Laumanns et al., 2005  and  Laumanns et al., 2006 ). We solve the problem exactly as well as approximately. Although the approximate solution of multiobjective combinatorial problems using metaheuristics is the main trend nowadays, the usefulness of exact algorithms is also undoubted. One of the basic reasons is the necessity for benchmarks for the approximate algorithms. The quality of the Pareto front approximation cannot be evaluated properly if the Pareto front is not exhaustively computed. The generation of the complete Pareto front cannot be done without the use of exact algorithms. In this work we suggest that the multicriteria branch and bound (MCBB) algorithm ( Mavrotas and Diakoulaki, 1998  and  Mavrotas and Diakoulaki, 2005 ) which was initially developed for mixed integer Multiobjective Linear Programming (MIMOLP) problems can be properly applied to solve multiobjective combinatorial optimization (MOCO) problems and specifically MOMCKP problems. For this purpose, we devise three branching heuristics and one composite branching and construction heuristic that are integrated in MCBB and essentially accelerate it. We compare our results to the published results that we found in the literature, specifically, the results of the adaptive ε -constraint method ( Laumanns et al., 2005  and  Laumanns et al., 2006 ). Moreover, we apply two well known multiobjective evolutionary algorithms (MOEA), namely NSGAII and SPEA2, on the same instances of the MOMCKP problems. The purpose is to examine the behaviour of mathematical programming methods along with standard metaheuristics that provide approximate solutions. Plots of the fronts are made and the coverage metric is computed for the approximate fronts, while a comparison between the performances of the two MOEA is performed. The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Section 2 reviews the related literature while Section 3 presents the heuristics which were developed to accelerate the MCBB algorithm for the MOMCKP problem. Section 4 briefly discusses the evolutionary techniques. Section 5 presents the datasets and discusses the results along with the plots and the coverage metric statistics of computed fronts. Finally, Section 6 draws the main conclusions. 2. Related literature The case of MOKP is well studied in the literature and various algorithms have been proposed. Basically, there are two variants of the MOKP, namely MOMCKP and multiobjective single-constraint knapsack problem (MOSCKP). Both variants of the MOKP, either with many constraints or with a single constraint, are traditional benchmarks within MOCO. Although our work focuses on MOMCKP, we review the literature of MOSCKP, for the completeness of the presentation. It must be noted that the great majority of the papers in the next paragraph refer to the bi-criteria case.