by Amy Mainville Cohn , Cynthia Barnhart Venue: IN PROCEEDINGS OF THE TRIENNIAL SYMPOSIUM ON TRANSPORTATION ANALYSIS Citations: 2 - 0 self @INPROCEEDINGS{Cohn98thestochastic,     author = {Amy Mainville Cohn and Cynthia Barnhart},     title = {The stochastic knapsack problem with random weights: A heuristic approach to robust transportation planning},     booktitle = {IN PROCEEDINGS OF THE TRIENNIAL SYMPOSIUM ON TRANSPORTATION ANALYSIS},     year = {1998},     publisher = {} } When transportation plans are developed, problem parameters are often not known with certainty. In addition, the parameters may vary throughout the time period during which the plan is implemented. Thus, improvements can often be made in the quality of such plans by accounting for this variability. However, incorporating stochasticity into problems that are already large-scale and difficult to solve is a significant challenge. Heuristic methods are often helpful, as is de-coupling a large problem into a series of smaller problems for which solution techniques may already exist. To contribute to the building of a toolkit for tackling such complex planning problems in a robust manner, we have chosen to focus on solving the stochastic knapsack problem with random weights (SKPRW). The deterministic knapsack problem is a classical problem with a wide range of transportation applications and a substantial body of literature. In this problem, there are a collection of objects, each with a given weight and value. The objective is to choose the set of objects with maximum collective value without exceeding an upper bound on their combined weight. We extend this deterministic knapsack problem literature by allowing the weights of each object to be random. We can view the SKPRW as a resource allocation problem. A planner is choosing amongst a series of business opportunities (for example, possible shipping customers). Each customer requires some quantity of a resource such as time, labor, physical materials, or space on a transportation link. The planner has a known, fixed, and finite 193 A tabu search heuristic for the vehicle routing problem - Gendreau, Hertz, et al. - 1994 78 Vehicle routing - Cordeau, Laporte, et al. - 2006 70 An exact algorithm for the vehicle routing problem with stochastic demand and customers - Gendreau, Laporte, et al. - 1995 63 The stochastic knapsack problem - Ross, Tsang - 1989 57 D.: A new generation of vehicle routing research: robust algorithms, addressing uncertainty - Bertsimas, Simchi-Levi - 1996 56 A Vehicule Routing Problem with Stochastic Demand - Bertsimas - 1992 54 Stochastic and dynamic vehicle routing in the Euclidean plane with multiple capacitated vehicles - Bertsimas, Ryzin - 1993 42 The Dynamic and Stochastic Knapsack Problem - Kleywegt, Papastavrou - 1998 40 The dynamic and stochastic knapsack problem with random sized items - Kleywegt, Papastavrou - 2001 21 Peterson,“Computational approaches to stochastic vehicle routing problems - Bertsimas, Chervi, et al. - 1995 19 A Preference Order Dynamic Program for a Knapsack Problem with Stochastic Rewards, The - Steinberg, Parks - 1979 18 Risk criteria in a stochastic knapsack problem - Henig - 1990 17 A resource allocation problem in a random environment - Righter - 1989 4 Stochastic Linear Knapsack Programming Problem and Its Application to a Portfolio Selection Problem - Morita, Ishii, et al. - 1989 3 The Vehicle Routing Problem with Stochastic Demands - Dror, Laporte, et al. - 1989 1 An Algorithm for Maximizing Target Achievement - Caraway, Schmidt, et al. - 1993