Password: Project selection has become crucial in the fields of science and engineering. This paper discusses the specific problem of selecting a portfolio of projects that achieves an organization's objectives without exceeding limited capital resources, especially when each project possesses vague input and output data in the selection. In this paper, a data envelopment analysis (DEA), knapsack formulation and fuzzy set theory integrated model is proposed to deal with the problem, and the model is demonstrated via a case study problem in engineering-procurement-construction (EPC) industry. Moreover, this paper applies three constraint handling techniques, which are factor-free penalty function based, to transform a constrained optimization problem into an unconstrained problem, and for the first time adopts the artificial bee colony (ABC) algorithm to search the solutions. The performances of these three constraint handling techniques with respect to the ABC algorithm are compared for the first time in this paper. Keywords Project selection ; Data envelopment analysis (DEA) ; Knapsack problem ; Constraint handling techniques ; Penalty function ; Fuzzy set theory ; Artificial bee colony (ABC) 1. Introduction The project selection problem considered in this paper is practical, which relates specifically to the notion of selecting a portfolio of projects that achieves an organization's objectives without exceeding limited capital resources, especially when each project possesses vague input and output data in the selection. To deal with such a problem, data envelopment analysis (DEA) and knapsack formulation approaches are often considered. However, though DEA is extensively adopted in the problem of evaluating a group of alternatives [1] , [2] , [3] , [4] , [5] , [6]  and  [7] , the poor discrimination capability in the outputs could hinder its popularity in project selection problems. Although alternatives can be classified into several efficiency-ranking groups, there is a failure specifically in prioritizing alternatives. In addition, DEA does not consider resource constraints while evaluating the alternatives. Alternatively, knapsack formulation is another mathematical approach which formulates the problem of maximizing profit or utility under constrained resources and is popularly applied in business for investment optimization [8] , [9]  and  [10] . However, a drawback of knapsack formulation is that because of the additive operations in objective function and constraint equations in the integer programming (IP) model, the ranking of the projects according to their objective values is not fully taken into account. That is, a group of projects with low total resource requirements and a medium total objective value may be selected against a high objective value project with high resource requirement [1]  and  [11] . In this paper, DEA, knapsack formulation and fuzzy set theory are integrated into a mathematical model for solving the project selection problem. The model not only gets rid of drawbacks of DEA and knapsack formulation mentioned above, achieves the purpose of selecting a group of projects within resource constrains, but also handles the vague data of each projects. Though there may be some models that integrated two of the three approaches (DEA, knapsack formulation and fuzzy set theory), the model proposed in this paper integrates all the three approaches, and thus increases the fitness of application in practical project selection problems. Further, the model is demonstrated via a case study problem in engineering-procurement-construction (EPC) industry. The case study is valuable because almost all project selection methods proposed in prior literature deal with research and development (R&D) or information system type projects, the problem of EPC project selection is seldom discussed. Moreover, since the project selection problem is formulated as a combinational and constrained optimization problem, constraint handling techniques are usually applied to transform the problem into unconstrained, and thus meta-heuristic algorithms may be applied for solution searching. This paper adopts the most common constraint handling technique, which is penalty function method, to carry out the transformation. For the sake of considering the performance of penalty function methods which is problem-dependent and may relate to meta-heuristic algorithms, a selection of proper constraint handling technique is uneasy; thus three penalty function methods are adopted in this paper. As to the meta-heuristic algorithm for the problem solving, this paper adopts now proved useful artificial bee colony (ABC) algorithm to search solutions [12]  and  [13] . To our knowledge, it is the first time to compare performances of constraint handling techniques in ABC algorithm. Therefore, the remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 gives literature reviews. Section 3 provides the problem description. Section 4 introduces the integrated model. And Section 5 provides model demonstration and computation experience. Finally, in Section 6 we draw conclusions and further research directions. 2. Literature review 2.1. Application of DEA and knapsack formulation in project selection DEA is a mathematical programming approach that evaluates a group of decision making units with comparative efficiency. The approach was proposed by Charnes, Cooper, and Rhodes (CCR) [14] and has been extensively applied. DEA compares a set of alternatives characterized over multiple dimensions and is aimed at attaining the following goals: (1) identifying the best alternative; (2) ranking the alternatives or, perhaps more likely; and (3) establishing a shortlist of the better alternatives for detailed review [1] . However, as mentioned earlier, DEA has not been widely adopted in solving the project selection problems [2] . A reason for this may be the poor discrimination capability of the outputs. Though alternatives can be classified into several efficiency ranking groups, there is often a failure to prioritize alternatives within a group further. In order to compensate for this drawback, Conka and Ercan [5] have introduced a set of additional criteria to carry out a supplemental ranking after DEA outputs on R&D project selections. Also, Sowlati et al. [4] combined the weighted average and analytical hierarchy process (AHP) methods into DEA for better discrimination on information system selection problems. Eilat et al. [6]  and  [7] integrated the balanced scorecard approach into DEA for a better alternative ranking on R&D project selection problems. Another drawback of DEA is that DEA does not consider resource constraints while evaluating alternatives. This is problematic for the application of DEA to resource constraint project selection problems. The knapsack formulation is best understood through the problem of a hitchhiker searching for a combination of different objects to put in his/her knapsack for which the total value of all chosen objects is maximized. Since it can formulate the problem of maximizing profit or utility under resource constraints, it is extensively applied in optimization problems in business or engineering. However, a drawback of the knapsack formulation in project selection can be that, due to the additive operations in objective functions and constraint equations in IP models, the ranking of the projects according to their objective values is not fully taken into account in model solving. That is, a group of projects with low total resource requirements and medium total objective values may be selected against a high objective value project which requires high resource requirement [1]  and  [11] , also as mentioned earlier. This situation occurs because the IP formulation naturally allows the comparison of a single project against a combination of projects [11] . Thus, Mavrotas et al. [11] proposed an augmented score rule to ensure that better alternatives could preserve higher objective values and not be replaced by combinations of worse alternatives on scientific proposal selection problems. Cook and Green [1] integrated DEA and knapsack formulation into a model to decide the project ranking in R&D project selections. This model may decide the optimal bundle of projects which possesses the best efficiency under resource constraints. However, the assumption of precise data in inputs and outputs of alternatives in this model may frustrate its application to the real world problems. Moreover, the model in the paper has appeared to be redundant in equations in the resource constraint formulations. That is, even though the limitation of each resource was formulated as constraints in the model, several constraints were set to hinder additional projects from entering the optimal bundle of projects once any resource constraint could be violated. Furthermore, in order to transform the solution problem from nonlinear into linear, the model combined two multiplicative variables into one, which raises the requirements of further numerical analysis once the solution of the combined variable is zero. A survey of DEA and knapsack formulation applications in project selection therefore can be summarized in Table 1 .