IJOEH  Impact Factor increases by 24%! The 2015 release of the Journal Citation Reports shows an increase of 24.20% on the Impact Factor of IJOEH , now at 1.365. IJOEH study shows cosmetic talc products carry asbestos peril Talc, the fine, powdery mineral used in thousands of consumer products by everyone from newborns to the elderly, can be a killer when it's contaminated with asbestos, which some public health experts say happens far more often than miners and manufacturers acknowledge. In an explosive new study, scientists from three different laboratories worked for more than a year to track asbestos-contaminated talc from the mines to a popular body-powder product, then into the lung tissue of a woman who died of asbestos-caused mesothelioma after years of using the product. Read the article > International Journal of Occupational and Environmental Health is now indexed by PubMed Central All papers published from 2014 onwards will now be made freely available on PubMed Central after a 1-year embargo at no cost to the authors. For the first 12 months after publication, articles will be accessible by subscribers to the journal. From 12 months post-publication, all articles will become open access via PMC, making published articles more discoverable and accessible. Susanna Bohme, Deputy Editor of the IJOEH, interviews Editor-in-Chief, David Egilman David discusses the journals unique contributions to the field and talks about the future directions for the journal. Watch the video > NEWS: Many stressors associated with fracking due to perceived lack of transparency and trust Pennsylvania residents living near unconventional natural gas developments using hydraulic fracturing, known by the slang term “fracking”, attribute several dozen health concerns and stressors to the Marcellus Shale developments in their area. Reported health impacts persist and increase over time, even after the initial drilling activity subsides. The study, which was published in the June issue of IJOEH , surveyed those who believe their health has been affected by hydraulic fracturing activities for self-reported symptoms and stressors. The most commonly cited concern was stress, which 76% of participants said they’d experienced. Among the leading causes of stress reported by the participants were feelings of being taken advantage of, having their concerns and complaints ignored, and being denied information or misled. Read the full journal article > PRESS RELEASE: Varying levels of carcinogens found in cola worldwide 'Carcinogenicity and regulation of caramel colorings', an article published in the IJOEH , states that Coca-Cola sold in California now contains little of the cancer-causing chemical 4-methylimidizole (4-MI). However, tests carried out by the Center for Science in the Public Interest show that alarming levels of a carcinogenic chemical are evident in Coca-Cola produced in Brazil, Mexico, Kenya, the UK and Canada. Read the press release > Read the journal article > Watch the video >