Password:   We consider the single item capacitated lot-sizing problem, a well-known production planning model that often arises in practical applications, and derive new classes of valid inequalities for it. We first derive new, easily computable valid inequalities for the continuous 0–1 knapsack problem, which has been introduced recently and has been shown to provide a useful relaxation of mixed 0–1 integer programs. We then show that by studying an appropriate continuous 0–1 knapsack relaxation of the capacitated lot-sizing problem, it is possible not only to derive new classes of valid inequalities for the capacitated lot-sizing problem, but also to derive and/or strengthen several known classes. Keywords Integer programming ; Capacitated lot-sizing ; Continuous 0–1 knapsack problem 1. Introduction The single item capacitated lot-sizing problem (CLSP) is a production planning model that has been studied extensively. It often arises in practical applications, either in its pure form or as a substructure of a more complicated model. This particular study was motivated by the need of Philips Electronics North America to solve a variety of production planning problems that contain CLSP as a substructure. The standard formulation of CLSP is The number of time periods in the problem is T . The demand and production capacity in period j are given by d j and c j , respectively; we assume that and . The parameter p j is the unit cost of production during period j , h j is the cost of holding stock or inventory at the end of period j , and q j is the fixed set-up cost that must be paid before any production can occur in period j . The nonnegative variable x j is continuous and represents the amount produced in period j . The variable s j , also continuous, represents inventory or stock held over at the end of period j , and its nonnegativity ensures that backorders are not permitted. The binary variable y j indicates whether or not we produce in period j . Throughout this paper, it is convenient to use the identity s 0 =0. Constraints (2) are inventory balance constraints that ensure that demand is met. Constraints (3) enforce the production capacity restriction in each time period, and also ensure that a set-up cost is paid for each period in which production occurs. By letting , we can tighten (3) to equation ( 6 ) We refer to valid inequalities for the set defined by , ,  and  as valid inequalities for CLSP, and we refer to the convex hull of the set defined by , ,  and  as conv(CLSP). This paper studies the polyhedral structure of conv(CLSP). Much research has been done on the polyhedral structure of conv(CLSP). Most of this work has focused on one of two special cases: the uncapacitated lot-sizing problem (ULSP), in which c j ⩾ d jT , j =1,…, T ( Barany et al., 1984 ); and the constant capacity lot-sizing problem (CCLP), in which ( Pochet, 1988 ; Leung et al., 1989 ; Pochet and Wolsey, 1993  and  Pochet and Wolsey, 1994 ). Although CLSP in general is -hard, both of these special cases are polynomially solvable. Polynomial-time algorithms were given by Wagner and Whitin (1958) for ULSP and by Florian and Klein (1971) for CCLP. Pochet (1988) and Marchand (1998) derived valid inequalities for the general case of CLSP. In addition, Constantino (1996) derived inequalities for the capacitated lot-sizing problem with start-up costs. It is possible to adapt the two interval submodular classes he introduced in a straightforward manner to obtain valid inequalities for CLSP ( Pochet and Wolsey, 1995 ).