  We address the two-dimensional Knapsack Problem (2KP), aimed at packing a maximum-profit subset of rectangles selected from a given set into another rectangle. We consider the natural relaxation of 2KP given by the one-dimensional KP with item weights equal to the rectangle areas, proving the worst-case performance of the associated upper bound, and present and compare computationally four exact algorithms based on the above relaxation, showing their effectiveness. Keywords Two-dimensional Knapsack ; Upper bound ; Approximation Algorithm ; Worst-case Performance ; Exact Algorithm 1. Introduction We address the ( orthogonal ) two-dimensional Knapsack Problem (2KP), whose input consists of a set N ={1,…, n } of “small” rectangles ( items ), the j th having a width w j , a height h j and a profit p j , and a “large” rectangle ( knapsack ) of width W and height H . The objective is to pack a maximum-profit subset of the items into the knapsack, with the constraint that items do not overlap and each of them, say the j th, must have its edge of height h j parallel to the edge of the knapsack of height H (such a requirement is called orthogonal packing without rotation ). 2KP is a generalization of the famous one-dimensional Knapsack Problem (KP), arising as a special case if h j = H for all j ∈ N . Whereas KP is solvable in pseudopolynomial time by dynamic programming, 2KP is strongly NP-hard, since in the special case in which all item heights are equal, the problem of testing whether the whole set N of items fits in the knapsack is equivalent to the well-known (one-dimensional) bin packing problem. Methods for the practical solution of 2KP have widely been studied in the literature since the seminal work of Gilmore and Gomory [14] . In many practical applications, additional constraints are imposed on the problem, such as guillotine or k - stage solution patterns. For a comprehensive annotated bibliography on 2KP and variations, see [8] . On the other hand, no approximation algorithms with worst-case performance guarantee appear to be known for 2KP, which is surprising since a few results in this direction are known for related two-dimensional packing problems, see e.g. [6] . To the best of our knowledge, there is no result that rules out the existence of polynomial time approximation schemes for 2KP. In this paper, we mainly focus on upper bounds and exact algorithms for 2KP. Previous works in this direction are those by Beasley [2] , Hadjiconstantinou and Christofides [16] , Boschetti et al. [4] and Fekete and Schepers [9]  and  [13] . The first three references present integer linear programming formulations of the problem which are used to derive upper bounds through Lagrangian or surrogate relaxation. Moreover, the first two references illustrate branch-and-bound algorithms based on these upper bounds, in which branching selects at the same time an item to pack in the knapsack and the position in which it is packed, whereas the last one presents heuristic algorithms that are based on the relaxations and are often capable of finding provably optimal solutions. The last reference presents upper bounding procedures based on the so-called dual feasible functions (see Fekete and Schepers [10]  and  [13] ), which lead to the solution of a suitable KP instance. This upper bound is embedded into a branch-and-bound algorithm in which the branching rule defines the set S of items to pack in the knapsack without specifying the corresponding position. Each time a new item is added to S , the algorithm checks whether the items in S fit in the knapsack by a separate enumerative procedure. (More details about this algorithm will be given in Section 3 .) A branching scheme that specifies that a given item will be packed, without fixing the position in which it will be packed, has also been proposed by Martello and Vigo [20] to solve the two-dimensional bin packing problem (2BPP). In practice, the approach in [13] widely outperforms the previous ones. In Section 2 , we consider the natural relaxation of 2KP given by the (one-dimensional) KP with item weights equal to the rectangle areas, showing that the associated optimal value is at most 3 times the 2KP solution value, and that the worst-case ratio of 3 is tight. As a byproduct, we get a polynomial -approximation algorithm for 2KP (for any ε >0), which appears to be the first nontrivial approximation algorithm for the problem. We also note that a completely analogous result holds for the two-dimensional Bin Packing Problem and its one-dimensional relaxation. In Section 3 , we present four enumerative schemes for the optimal solution of 2KP, all based on the above relaxation, and in which the branching step fixes the set of items packed in the solution without specifying the packing layout. The feasibility of the current set of items, i.e. the fact that they fit into the knapsack, is tested by using an exact algorithm for the two-dimensional Strip Packing Problem as a black box. The difference among the various enumerative schemes is the frequency of this feasibility test. Computational comparison in Section 4 shows that different policies lead to substantially different running times, and that the best of our enumerative schemes turns out to be competitive with the algorithm in [13] . 2. A natural one-dimensional relaxation A natural relaxation of 2KP (see e.g. [4] ) is the following KP: equation ( 3 )