Password:   The 0–1 knapsack problem (KP01) is a well-known combinatorial optimization problem. It is an NP-hard problem which plays important roles in computing theory and in many real life applications. Chemical reaction optimization (CRO) is a new optimization framework, inspired by the nature of chemical reactions. CRO has demonstrated excellent performance in solving many engineering problems such as the quadratic assignment problem, neural network training, multimodal continuous problems, etc. This paper proposes a new chemical reaction optimization with greedy strategy algorithm (CROG) to solve KP01. The paper also explains the operator design and parameter turning methods for CROG. A new repair function integrating a greedy strategy and random selection is used to repair the infeasible solutions. The experimental results have proven the superior performance of CROG compared to genetic algorithm (GA), ant colony optimization (ACO) and quantum-inspired evolutionary algorithm (QEA). ► A new algorithm based on chemical reaction optimization and greedy strategy is proposed to solve 0–1 knapsack problem. ► Four problem-specific operators are designed to implement the local search and global search. ► A new repair operator which helps the algorithm to be fast convergence and avoids local optima is proposed. Keywords Chemical reaction optimization ; Greedy ; 0–1 Knapsack problem 1. Introduction The 0–1 knapsack problem (KP01) is known to be a combinatorial optimization problem. The knapsack problem has a variety of practical applications such as cutting stock problems, portfolio optimization, scheduling problems [20] and cryptography [1] , [9]  and  [3] . The knapsack appears as a sub-problem in many complex mathematical models of real world problems. In a given set of n items, each of them has a weight q i and a profit p i . The problem is to select a subset from the set of n items such that the overall profit is maximized without exceeding a given weight capacity C . It is an NP-Hard problem and hence it does not have a polynomial time algorithm unless P  =  NP [2] . The problem may be mathematically modelled as follows: equation ( 1 ) Maximize ∑ i = 1 n x i p i Subject     to ∑ i = 1 n x i q i ≤ C , x i ∈ { 0 , 1 } , ∀ i ∈ { 1 , 2 , … , n } where x i takes values either 1 or 0 which represents the selection or rejection of the i th item. Over the last four decades, researchers have proposed many approaches to solve KP01. We can classify the methods for this problem into two classes namely, exact algorithms and approximate algorithms. Exact approaches include dynamic programming proposed by Bellman [20] and Branch and Bound proposed by Kolesar [8] . Recently, researchers, such as Kellerer et al. [7] have worked on ways to exactly solve ever larger instances of the knapsack problem. Many of these involve solving some “core” of the problem and then building this partial solution to a full solution. A parallel algorithm based on an EREW-SIMD machine with shared memory was proposed by Li et al. [16] . Among the early heuristic approaches, a “polynomial approximation schemes” was first developed for the knapsack problem by Sahni [22] . Such schemes may be thought of as solution methods in which one may specify a desired guarantee for the quality of solution in advance of solving. As to be expected, the work to solve increases quickly with the quality required. Immediately afterwards, this was improved by Ibarra and Kim [6] to a fully polynomial approximation scheme which makes the trade-off between quality of solution and effort slightly more favorable. Specialized solution techniques to solve the knapsack problem and its variants were provided by Martello and Toth [20] . In recent years, many heuristic algorithms have been employed to solve KP01 problems: Chou-Yuan [15] proposed an ant colony optimization (ACO) for KP01; Shi [24] modified the parameters of the ant colony optimization model to adapt itself to KP01 problems; Li [17] proposed a binary particle swarm optimization based on multi-mutation strategy (MMBPSO) to solve the knapsack problem; Han and Kim [4] proposed a quantum-inspired evolutionary algorithm (QEA) for KP01; Liu and Liu [19] proposed a schema-guiding evolutionary algorithm (SGEA) to solve KP01 problems and Zou et al. [31] invented global harmony search algorithm to solve KP01.