Password: This paper deals with the problem of inaccuracy of the solutions generated by metaheuristic approaches for combinatorial optimization bi-criteria {0, 1}-knapsack problems. A hybrid approach which combines systematic and heuristic searches is proposed to reduce that inaccuracy in the context of a scatter search method. The components of this method are used to determine regions in the decision space to be systematically searched. Comparisons with small and medium size instances solved by exact methods are presented. Large size instances are also considered and the quality of the approximation is evaluated by taking into account the proximity to the upper frontier, devised by the linear relaxation, and the diversity of the solutions. Comparisons with other two well-known metaheuristics are also performed. The results show the effectiveness of the proposed approach for both small/medium and large size instances. Keywords Metaheuristics ; Exact methods ; Scatter search ; Bi-criteria knapsack ; Combinatorial optimization Multiple criteria {0, 1}-knapsack problems are about selecting a set of items without exceeding a given capacity of the knapsack and taking into account simultaneously several conflicting criteria. They have many industrial applications such as capital budgeting, cargo loading and cutting stock ( Martello and Toth, 1990 ). Examples of real-world applications can be found in Kwark et al., 1996 , Teng and Tzeng, 1996  and  Rosenblatt and Sinnuany-Stern, 1989 concerning project selection problems, and more recently, in Lokkentagen et al. (2002) where a road planning problem is considered and Jenkins (2002) that considers a bi-criteria knapsack program for planning remediation of contamined lightstations sites. Generating the exact set of efficient/non-dominated solutions is a hard task, even for the easiest case, i.e., for bi-criteria problems. Exact methods can only deal with small and medium size instances ( Visée et al., 1998  and  Captivo et al., 2003 ). Large size instances require the use of approximate methods, which lead to an approximation of the efficient/non-dominated solutions, called potentially efficient/non-dominated solutions. Several approximate methods, in particular metaheuristics, have recently been proposed, or applied, to approximate the entire set of non-dominated solutions, also called Pareto frontier (PF) ( Ben Abdelaziz and Krichen, 1997 , Ben Abdelaziz et al., 1999 , Czyzak and Jaskiewicz, 1998 , Ulungu et al., 1999 , Gandibleux and Fréville, 2000 , Gandibleux et al., 2001  and  Gomes da Silva et al., 2006 ). They are genetic algorithms, tabu-search, simulated annealing and scatter search metaheuristics. However, when compared with the exact PF the approximation is frequently very poor, particularly for large size instances. The main difficulties faced when using an approximate method are the following: (1) the approximate PF is not well dispersed along the non-dominated region; (2) only a small number of exact efficient/non-dominated solutions is obtained; (3) the number of potentially efficient/non-dominated solutions is quite lower than the actual number of exact efficient/non-dominated solutions; (4) reducing difficulties (1), (2) and (3) requires a significant amount of CPU time. All the referred methods suffer, with different degrees of intensity, from the above difficulties. The first difficulty is due to the lack of diversification of the solutions along the iterative process of solving the problem, while the remaining are mainly due to the presence of weak combination diversification/intensification strategies for exploring the decision space. Intensification strategies are responsible for guiding the search towards promising regions and exploiting their solutions space ( Glover, 1999 , Laguna, 2002  and  Laguna and Martí, 2003 ). In {0, 1} problems, their application usually consists of evaluating a neighborhood of a given solution by commuting the value of a certain set of variables. Identifying such a set of variables is particularly time consuming. Hence its general use would lead to an inefficient method. For this reason, it is usual to consider only a small neighborhood. The price to pay for this “low visibility of the search space” ( Mautor, 2001 ) is the poor performance of the intensification procedures. Overcoming difficulties (2) and (3) requires more sophisticated and stronger intensification procedures guided by efficient strategies. This paper considers the development of such procedures for bi-criteria {0, 1}-knapsack problems and in the context of the scatter search (SS) method by Gomes da Silva et al. (2006) . This method is applied to large size instances and it is structured according to the usual components of the SS metaheuristic: Diversification method , Improvement method , Subset generation method and Combination method . The computational experiments show that the quality of the approximation concerning the distribution along the PF and the proximity to the upper frontier (derived from the linear relaxation of the problem) is quite good. The CPU time for obtaining such an approximation is reasonable (about one hour for instances with a number of items up to 6000). Nevertheless, it was detected that the number of solutions obtained increases linearly with the number of items, which contradicts the exponential increase evidenced by exact methods for small and medium size instances ( Visée et al., 1998  and  Captivo et al., 2003 ). It was also verified that the percentage of exact non-dominated solutions was not very high and decreases substantially with the size of the problem. In this paper the method is modified in order to overcome those drawbacks. The main modifications are made in the Combination method by incorporating a mixture of exact and heuristic search strategies. Heuristic search strategies are used to detect interesting regions in the decision space which are then exploited by a systematic search. Indeed, when such regions are found they are completely exploited due to the exact nature of the underlying method. The approach consists of a partial optimization scope hence the original bi-criteria problem is divided into smaller ones, which are then optimized, i.e., all the efficient solutions of them are computed. The combination of these two types of search has been successfully applied to several single criterion combinatorial optimization problems: time tabling, quadratic assignment, vehicle routing, scheduling and network design ( Mautor, 2001 ). To our best knowledge the proposed Combination method was not yet applied to multiple criteria problems with the purpose of exactly exploiting regions detected by heuristic strategies. The approach here presented requires the existence of an exact method that can work efficiently for, at least, small size instances. In our problem, the systematic search is performed by the exact method by Visée et al. (1998) . This method is applied to several subproblems of convenient size, i.e., those containing a number of variables that a subproblem should not exceed in order to be quickly solved. Several properties for the combination can be derived helping to accelerate the method and giving insights on the quality of the obtained solutions. The requirements and the characteristics of the combination of solutions impose modifications in the structure of the Reference set update method and in the Subset generation method. We begin with the presentation of the changes in the Combination method in order to justify the changes in the design of the Reference set update method and Subset generation method . The paper is organized as follows. Section 2 , presents a brief overview of the SS based method by Gomes da Silva et al. (2006) . Section 3 , is about the Combination method , Reference set update method and Subset generation method . Section 4 , is devoted to the computational results. Section 5 , presents the main conclusions of this work.