Title: Status report on knapsack-based public key cryptosystems In the period since 1976, when Diffie and Hellman published the first discussion of two-key cryptography to appear in the open literature, only a handful of two-key cryptoalgorithms have been proposed - two of which are based on the knapsack problem. Consequently there was enormous interest when Shamir announced in early 1982 a cryptanalytic technique that could break many Merkle-Hellman knapsacks. In a rapid sequence of developments, Simmons and Brickell, Adleman, and Lagarias all announced other attacks on knapsack-based cryptosystems that were either computationally much more efficient or else directed at other knapsack schemes such as the Graham-Shamir or iterated systems. This paper analyzes the common features of knapsack-based cryptosystems and presents all of the cryptanalytic attacks made in 1982 from a unified viewpoint. Authors: Brickell, E.F. ; Simmons, G.J. Publication Date: 1983-02-01 OSTI Identifier: 6180916 Report Number(s): SAND-83-0042 ON: DE83010697 DOE Contract Number: AC04-76DP00789 Resource Type: Technical Report Research Org: Sandia National Labs., Albuquerque, NM (USA) Country of Publication: United States Language: English Subject: 99 GENERAL AND MISCELLANEOUS//MATHEMATICS, COMPUTING, AND INFORMATION SCIENCE ; PROGRAMMING ; SECRECY PROTECTION ; ALGORITHMS ; SECURITY ; MATHEMATICAL LOGIC 990200* -- Mathematics & Computers Full Text Technical Reports Please see Document Availability for additional information on obtaining the full-text document. Library patrons may search WorldCat to identify libraries that may hold this item. Keep in mind that many technical reports are not cataloged in WorldCat. Have feedback or suggestions for a way to improve these results? ! Citation Formats MLA 0 pages in this document matching the terms " " Search For Terms: Enter terms in the toolbar above to search the full text of this document for pages containing specific keywords. Some links on this page may take you to non-federal websites. Their policies may differ from this site.