This paper presents a methodology for allocating funds to highway safety improvements. Besides the commonly used binary variables that represent discrete interventions at specific points of a highway, continuous variables are introduced to represent the lengths of a highway over which continuous improvements, such as pavement resurfacing or lighting, are implemented. The problem is formulated as a mixed integer knapsack model with linear multiple choice constraints. Some insight into its solution properties is provided and an efficient branch and bound algorithm is proposed for its solution. A case study that illustrates the application of the model is also presented. Keywords Highway safety improvements ; Budget allocation ; Mixed integer ; Knapsack problem 1. Introduction Highway improvement programming has been a major concern of transportation agencies for many years. The involvement of human lives gives to the related problem a tremendous significance that demands special attention. As a result, a great part of the federal funding in the United States is directed towards the maintenance and improvement of the condition of major highways, in an effort to reduce the potential loss and increase the level of public safety. A total of $100 billion of federal funds were spent to fix interstate highways and other major roads in the 1990s. As a percentage of the total federal transportation spending, spending to improve roads and bridges increased annually from 39% in 1990 to 49% in 1998 ( STPP, 2000 ). Optimal allocation of funds to highway improvements is a complicated and often tedious task. The large number of competing alternatives requires a methodology for prioritizing the recommended projects, so that the return from the utilization of a limited budget is maximized. Despite the numerous approaches that have appeared in the literature, the complexity of the problem in association with the difficulty in estimating some of its primary parameters often result in non-optimal decisions ( Donaldson, 1988 ). A rational method for the treatment of the problem becomes increasingly necessary, as indicated by the rapid increase in the number of registered vehicles on the one hand and the unavoidable deterioration of the highways on the other. Given a set of highways and a set of recommended improvements for each of them, the problem addressed in this paper is to allocate an available budget among these highways, in order to optimize some appropriate measure of effectiveness. A commonly used measure of effectiveness is the reduction in the expected number of accidents, based on the fact that the frequency of accidents is directly related to the frequency of highway fatalities and injuries. Although transportation fatalities declined during the last decade, auto accidents remain the leading cause of accidental death among Americans and the leading cause of death overall for people aged 1–34 ( STPP, 2000 ). The top goal of the US Department of Transportation, which appropriates the largest share of the funding for highway improvements, remains the increase of transportation safety ( US DOT, 2001 ). Typical techniques for highway improvement projects' selection that have been reported in the transportation literature include dynamic programming ( Brown, 1980 ) and incremental benefit–cost analysis approaches ( Farid et al., 1994 ). Sinha et al. (1981) suggested a procedure where the reduction in the expected number of accidents is used as the measure of effectiveness and binary variables are utilized to represent the various improvement alternatives. Following this procedure, the problem is formulated as a binary integer optimization model. Among others, the paper presents a multi-year model with the flexibility of carry-over of unspent funds from previous years. A stochastic version of the model that examines the case in which there are uncertainties in estimating model parameters is also introduced. Pal and Sinha (1998) extended this work by considering the effectiveness of the various projects in future years. Their model takes into account the expected growth in traffic resulting from the implementation of the recommended projects. As in the paper by Sinha et al. (1981) , the problem is formulated as a binary integer optimization model where the total crash rate is minimized. All papers in the highway improvement programming literature thus far deal with discrete improvements. A discrete improvement is associated with a particular intervention at a specific point of the road, for which we have only two choices, implementation or not. The smoothing of a dangerous curve or the repair of a bridge are examples of discrete improvements. The mathematical representation of these improvements is thus accomplished by binary variables. In addition to the commonly used binary variables, this paper introduces continuous variables for improvements that can be implemented continuously over parts of the highways under consideration. For example, the quality of the pavement can be improved continuously in any subsection of a highway and therefore it can be characterized as a continuous improvement. The length of the highway over which a continuous improvement is carried out is represented by a continuous variable. Interactions that may arise from the implementation of more than one continuous improvements on the same part of a highway are explicitly considered in this work. The total reduction in the expected number of accidents is used as the measure of anticipated return. A mixed integer optimization model is formulated and an efficient algorithm is developed, by exploiting the model's similarity to the multiple choice knapsack problem. The remainder of this paper is structured as follows. Section 2 introduces the highway safety improvement model. Section 3 elaborates on some important properties of the model and proposes a branch and bound procedure for its solution. Section 4 presents a small case study illustrating the application of the model. Finally, Section 5 summarizes this work and points to directions for future research. 2. Highway safety improvement model We consider a set of highways and a set of recommended improvements for each of them. Each improvement is classified as either discrete or continuous, as described in the previous section. The cost of a continuous improvement is proportional to the length of the highway (miles) over which it is applied with a constant of proportionality being the unit cost ($/mile) that depends on the particular improvement. On the other hand, the cost of a discrete improvement is fixed ($). The same distinction is made for the return of a continuous versus a discrete improvement. The objective is to find the optimal selection of improvements on this set of highways that when implemented results in the maximum reduction in the expected number of accidents (total return), under the constraint that the amount of money needed for the implementation of these improvements does not exceed the available budget. For the needs of the model, every highway is divided into segments, each of which has uniform characteristics. This simply means that the segment attributes, i.e. the unit costs and accident reduction factors of continuous improvements and the vehicle traffic volumes do not change throughout the length of a highway segment. As far as the traffic volumes are concerned, we can be sure that they remain constant over the length of a highway between two consecutive exits/intersections. In many instances, the other two attributes do not change significantly over that highway length. This may not be always true, however. Smaller segments may need to be defined to reflect significant variations in these attributes. A correct approach should provide with an appropriate partition of the highways into a sufficient number of segments that will ensure an accurate representation of the system, while keeping the problem size (number of variables and data required) manageable. In some cases, the cost needed to apply two or more distinct continuous improvements over the same part of a highway segment may be higher or lower than the sum of the costs of these improvements considered independently. For example, total cost can decrease when resources are being shared. In a similar manner, the actual return from the application of two or more improvements over the same part of a highway segment may be lower or higher than the return computed when these improvements are treated independently. In general, the combined return is expected to be lower except in the case of synergy. In order to accommodate dependencies among continuous improvements we use the following procedure. For each combination of continuous improvements within a segment, we define another variable that represents the length of this segment over which all these improvements are applied. The return and cost of this new variable is equal to the actual return and cost incurred when all the improvements that are associated with this variable are implemented. Suppose that three continuous improvements can be implemented on highway segment 2. Then, the following variables are defined: Variable and x 23 , represents the length of highway segment 2 over which single improvement 1, 2 and 3 is implemented, respectively. Three combined variables are introduced representing segment lengths over which two improvements are implemented, i.e. 1 and 2 ( x 24 ), 1 and 3 ( x 25 ), and 2 and 3 ( x 26 ). Finally, a combined variable is introduced that represents the segment length over which all three improvements are implemented ( x 27 ). Thus, seven variables should be used in this case, of which three represent individual improvements and four represent combined improvements. The sum of all variables cannot exceed the length of highway segment 2. Conversely, any problem solution should be interpreted appropriately, according to the definition of the variables. If in the case described above for example, the length of segment 2 is 2.7 miles and x 21 =1.5, x 22 =1.2, x 24 =0, then improvements 1 and 2 should not overlap on this segment, in order to ensure that the length of combined improvements 1 and 2 ( x 24 ) is 0. The above described technique for the treatment of interactions among continuous improvements will increase the number of decision variables of the model. Nevertheless, in practical situations this increase remains manageable, since the number of individual continuous improvements is relatively small. In addition, the algorithm proposed for the solution of the model is very efficient in handling continuous variables.