i as a bed, a portion being UNITED; STATES PATENT g FFLQE., unioni; ruonsnrur" Axn ,vonnis iin-Error NW'ORK, Y. lMPRO-VED KNAPSACK AND BED iN COMBflNATIN. , spcincaiion fol-ming part of Leiters Patent No.4 33,335', dated october-1,1861. To all whom it may concern.- Be it known that we, BRIDGE FROIDSHM and inghad to theaccompanying drawings, making part of this specificatiomwherein- Figure 1 is a perspective view of-our knapsack-bedas rolled or folded for transportation.l Fig, Q'represents the vsame as spread-V for use in section'to show the interior; and Fig. 3 is across-s'ection'V of said bed. i Similar marks of reference denote the same parts. The nature .of our said invention'consists-,` in an india-rubber casing made Water-tight Q and containing a bag of Iiii'ely-cut`cork or other filling and stitched at suitable'placemso as to fold up readily, and in thesaid rubber casing we provide .a pocket to contain articles of clothing, so-that said bed answers for a 5 knapsack and the articles'form a pillow.- In the drawings, a. is a casing, made vof -india-rubber water-proof fabric, containing the bag l), ol" cotton or other cloth, in which are finely-cutshreds of cork or other material; and the bag is stitched across or knottedat suitable. places,so as to keep the stuffing material from getting out of place, and also for aording opportunity to fold up the whole article, as in Fig. 1. has been introduced. c is a, pocket formed on the casing @and d is a flap to the same, upon which are strings or straps, so as to retain the contets of then I said pocket c. the mattress, This pocket c .not-only b ecomes a knapsack, but .also answers as a pillow. .y s It will be evidentthat ourl bed and knappossesses' great ad vautages. sack combined There is no possi-bility of lvermin breeding 1n the rubber casingj being 'air'- tight.. The article becomes a life preset-ver in crossing rivers, or a large number; of'them would form a, ponton for receiving planksfor crossing rivers.- Above all 'other advantages 'is that' of health .to the party using the same, because dampness from the earthffrom' wetv grass, dews, dac., is etectuallyjkept froiml .the i person, who thereby, being dry,':is not liable to rheuma-tiem, lumbago, &c In cases where used for wou'nded'soldiers-the mattress is not g only softand comfortable, but is not ing ured by the soakingup of blood,.aslwitl 1 the common mattresses. l Y In Fig. 2'we have illustrated the' manner in which straps canibeapplied to ourknapsa'ckbed in its folded condition-,so as to be carried uponthe back. We are 'aware that litiated rubber bedsand pillowsare old, and -also. that vpockets have Vbeen applied in mat tresses and knapsacksj but What we claim, and desire to secure by Letters Patent, is -v The .india-rubbe'rwater-tight casing a, containing the-bnf.;l of finely-cut c orkor equivalent material and'provded with thepocket c and Hand, as-and for the purposesspecied. `In witness whereof we have hereunto set The india-rubber casing is to be closed up watcr-tiglit after the bag (1 our signatures this dday of September, 1861. BRIDGE FRoDsnAM. M1 LEVET'I.