Password: In this paper, we propose models and solution approaches for determining the facility locations of medical supplies in response to large-scale emergencies. We address the demand uncertainty and medical supply insufficiency by providing each demand point with services from a multiple quantity of facilities that are located at different quality levels (distances). The problem is formulated as a maximal covering problem with multiple facility quantity-of-coverage and quality-of-coverage requirements. Three heuristics are developed to solve the location problem: a genetic algorithm heuristic, a locate–allocate heuristic, and a Lagrangean relaxation heuristic. We evaluate the performance of the model and the heuristics by using illustrative emergency examples. We show that the model provides an effective method to address uncertainties with little added cost in demand point coverage. We also show that the heuristics are able to generate good facility location solutions in an efficient manner. Moreover, we give suggestions on how to select the most appropriate heuristic to solve different location problem instances. Keywords Maximal covering problem ; Large-scale emergency ; Genetic algorithm ; Greedy algorithm ; Locate–allocate ; Lagrangean relaxation 1. Introduction In the event of a large-scale emergency such as a terrorist attack (e.g. September 11) or a major natural disaster (e.g. hurricane), tremendous demands for medical supplies will occur at the incident site(s) in a short time period. Emergency preparedness requirements for such events need pharmaceutical caches to be pre-positioned or staging areas to be determined so as to enable a rapid disbursement of supplies from the national stockpiles ( CDC, 2005 ). An important consideration in selecting the locations of facilities (i.e. the pharmaceutical caches or staging areas) is the coverage of the demand areas. A sufficient coverage of the demand areas by the facilities can ensure prompt medical services to the population, hence minimizing the life-loss caused by the emergencies. Most facility location models, including the ones in a context of emergency services, consider providing a single facility (possibly including a few backup facilities) to cover a demand point ( Church and ReVelle, 1974 , Hogan and ReVelle, 1986 , Marianov and ReVelle, 1996 , Paluzzi, 2004  and  Schilling et al., 1979 ). Such emergency models however typically have not considered conditions where a tremendous demand and low frequency combine to create situations with insufficient supplies and large uncertain demands. These conditions, which may occur in large-scale emergencies, require a modification in the definition of facility coverage to allow for redundant facility placements and tiered facility services to ensure an acceptable form of coverage of all demand areas. Given the occurrence of a large-scale emergency, the resources of a number of facilities need to be applied to quell the impact of the emergency. This implies that, to service a demand point, a number (multiple quantity) of facilities should be used, which can be classified in terms of the distance/time to the demand point. A facility that is close to a demand point provides a better quality of coverage to that demand point than a facility located far from that demand point ( Dessouky, Ordóñez, Jia, & Shen, 2006 ). In Jia, Ordóñez, and Dessouky (2007) , we introduced a new facility location model for the medical supply distribution for large-scale emergencies. This model aims to maximize the population coverage, and addresses the uncertainty of demand and lack of supplies at each facility by requiring each demand point to receive a multiple facility quantity and quality of coverage. Specifically, the multiple facility quantity-of-coverage means that each demand point is covered by a multiple quantity of facilities that can be decided based on the attributes of the demand point such as the population density and the likelihood to be impacted by an emergency. The multiple facility quality-of-coverage means that the demand points are to be serviced by the facilities at different and tiered distance levels. We note that facility location problems for routine demand services with uncertainties have been previously investigated; for example, see Chen and Lin, 1998  and  Snyder and Daskin, 2006 . For a complete review on facility location problems with uncertainties, see Snyder (2006) . In the past, many solution approaches have been proposed for various facility location problems. Among them, the most commonly used ones consist of meta-heuristics (e.g. genetic algorithms such as Beasley & Chu, 1996 ; tabu search such as Al-Sultan & Al-Fawzan, 1999 ; simulated annealing such as Alves & Almeida, 1992 ), locate–allocate heuristics (e.g. Larson and Brandeau, 1986  and  Taillard, 2003 ), and Lagrangean relaxation heuristics (e.g. Pirkul and Schilling, 1989  and  Weaver and Church, 1984 ). In this paper we extend the above solution approaches to the location problem with multiple facility quantity-of-coverage and quality-of-coverage requirements. For the meta-heuristics, we focus on the genetic algorithm (GA) since it is widely used for location problems. We conduct computational experiments on illustrative facility location problems for large-scale emergencies. Our experiments investigate two important questions: 1. How do the proposed heuristic solution algorithms compare? We present benchmarks between the solution heuristics presented, CPLEX, and different upper bounds. We give suggestions on how to determine the most appropriate heuristic. 2. Which facilities should be opened in response to a large-scale emergency and in what order? We illustrate the use of the model and solution procedure on this problem and show that the order in which facilities are opened can have a significant effect on the quality of coverage. The rest of the paper is organized as follows. In Section 2 , we present the maximal facility covering model with multiple facility quantity-of-coverage and quality-of-coverage requirements. In Section 3 , three heuristic solution approaches are developed for solving the proposed maximal covering problem. In Section 4 , we present the large-scale emergency example we consider in this paper and our computational results. Finally, we give conclusions and directions for future work in Section 5 . 2. Maximal covering facility location model for large-scale emergencies A major distinction of large-scale emergencies from other regular emergencies is the sudden and tremendous demand for medical services, which overwhelms first responders and local supplies. Given that medical resources are limited, efficient location and allocation of stockpiles to demand points are important problems faced by emergency response planners. In this section, we first review the facility deployment problems and then present the mathematical model for locating and allocating the medical supplies in response to large-scale emergencies. Readers interested in details of the model and the characteristics of large-scale emergencies are referred to Dessouky et al., 2006  and  Jia et al., 2007 . The facility deployment problem considers a given geographical territory and assumes that the requests for medical services are concentrated among various (finite) demand areas within the territory. To properly allocate the medical resources, the eligible facility sites need to be identified and also the potential demand areas need to be categorized. Each demand area has distinct attributes such as population density, economic importance, geographical feature, weather pattern, etc. Therefore, the likelihood for a certain type of large-scale emergency to occur in one area, as well as the corresponding impact level, are different from the other areas. As such, the quantity of facilities that needs to be allocated to a demand area should consider the attributes of the demand point and hence may be different from the number of facilities allocated to other areas. The selection of eligible facility sites must also consider a set of criteria that are suited for large-scale emergencies. For instance, the facilities should have easy access to more than one major road/highway. The sites should be secured and insusceptible from damages caused by the emergencies.