We present new ATCA 21-cm line observations of the neutral hydrogen in the
nearby radio galaxy Centaurus A. We image in detail (with a resolution down to
7", ~100pc) the distribution of HI along the dust lane. Our data have better
velocity resolution and better sensitivity than previous observations. The HI
extends for a total of ~15kpc. The data, combined with a titled-ring model of
the disk, allow to conclude that the kinematics of the HI is that of a
regularly rotating, highly warped structure down to the nuclear scale. The
parameters (in particular the inclination) of our model are somewhat different
from some of the previously proposed models but consistent with what was
recently derived from stellar light in a central ring. The model nicely
describes also the morphology of the dust lane as observed with Spitzer. There
are no indications that large-scale anomalies in the kinematics exist that
could be related to supplying material for the AGN. Large-scale radial motions
do exist, but these are only present at larger radii r>6kpc). This unsettled
gas is mainly part of a tail/arm like structure. The relatively regular
kinematics of the gas in this structure suggests that it is in the process of
settling down into the main disk. The presence of this structure further
supports the merger/interaction origin of the HI in Cen A. From the structure
and kinematics we estimate a timescale of 1.6-3.2*10^{8}yr since the merging
event. No bar structure is needed to describe the kinematics of the HI. The
comparison of the timescale derived from the large-scale HI structure and those
of the radio structure together with the relative regularity of the HI down to
the sub-kpc regions does not suggest a one-to-one correspondence between the
merger and the phase of radio activity. Interestingly, the radial motions of
the outer regions are such that the projected velocities are redshifted
compared to the regular orbits. This means that the blueshifted absorption
discovered earlier and discussed in our previous paper cannot be caused by
out-moving gas at large radius projected onto the centre. Therefore, the
interpretation of the blueshifted absorption, together with at least a fraction
of the redshifted nuclear absorption, as evidence for a regular inner disk,
still holds. Finally, we also report the discovery of two unresolved clouds
detected at 5.2 and 11kpc away (in projection) from the HI disk. They are
likely an other example of left-over of the merger that brought the HI gas.