FLITNET model results The FLITNET model is solved using a 30 node data set that represents customer zones located in New York state and Massachusetts; this serves as a sample area to demonstrate the usefulness of the FLITNET model developed in this study. The location of the 30 customer zones was originally used to solve emergency facility location‐allocation problems in a previous study (Batta and Mannur, 1990). All other input data for the FLITNET model are provided in the list below: 1. Potential warehouse and plant sites ∼ uniform (0.100). 2. CON( l , r ) ∼ uniform (90, 120). 3. Fixed costs for opening warehouses ∼ uniform (1,000, 2,000). 4. Fixed costs for opening plants ∼ uniform (2,500, 4,000). 5. Unit carrying costs for products at plants and warehouses ∼ uniform (0.01, 0.20). 6. Intransit inventory costs ∼ uniform (0.001, 0.005). 7. Capacity of warehouses ∼ uniform (650, 700). 8. Capacity of plants ∼ uniform (800, 1,200). 9. Frequency to ship products using different transportation nodes ∼ uniform (two days, five days). 10. Average lead time to ship product using different transportation nodes ∼ uniform (two days, seven days). A typical example consists of well over 2,250 constraints (equality and inequality constraints) and 2,100 decision variables (both binary integer variables and continuous variables). All computational work was performed on a 486 personal computer. A state‐of‐the‐art modeling package GAMS (generalized algebraic modeling system) is used to obtain optimal solutions to the problem. GAMS provides a consistent modeling environment with support of different mathematical models and solvers (GAMS, 1994). The potential locations for warehouses and plants were generated from a uniform distribution between 0 and 100 units. In Tables I through IV we relax constraints (3) and (6) to equality constraints to vary the number of open plants and warehouses. This adds more realism to the modeling procedure. These values are not meant to be restrictive in the problem solution and are used for illustrative purposes. Further, this system design allows the model to be applied over a wide range of problems and illustrates the advantages of the FLITNET modeling approach. Many problems with the same input structure were solved in order to achieve a reasonable level of confidence about the performance and validation of the FLITNET model. The model also considers issues like placement of open plants and warehouses as well as their capacities. Facility capacities can serve as a means of smoothing the workload among different facilities involved without overloading them. The number of products and customer demand for multiple products are varied randomly using a uniform distribution as follows: 1 Customer demand: 2. Unf(5,100) units; 3. Unf(200,100) units. 2 Number of products: 5. two products; 6. five products. Table I provides optimal solutions for the first case when demand is generated from a uniform distribution between (5, 100) units for two products. For the two cases (cases 1 and 2) when customer demand was low, warehouse capacity was generated randomly on a uniform distribution between (2,600, 2,700) units and plant capacity was generated on a uniform distribution between (3,000, 4,000) units. When customer demand was high (cases 3 and 4), warehouse capacity was generated randomly using a uniform distribution between (14,000, 15,000) units and plant capacity was generated uniformly between (19,000, 20,000) units. In Table I when the decision is to open two plants and two warehouses, the optimal solution is to open plants at nodes 1 and 5 and open warehouse at nodes 3 and 5. Open plant 2 transports 230 units of product 1 using transportation mode 1 to open warehouse 3 while it transports 236 units of product 1 using transportation mode 1 to open warehouse 5. We also provide the warehouse load ratio for each product. The warehouse at node 4 operates at 92.3 per cent of its capacity while the open warehouse at node 5 operates at 100 per cent of its capacity. This ratio should provide more insights as one could also identify the service differences for each product from each open warehouse. In Table I , we also report the fixed cost ratio. Fixed costs to open plants and warehouses are important components of total cost that is incurred for the FLITNET model. The fixed cost ratio is found to be 19.49 per cent when the decision is to open two warehouses and plants. It took less than 8 seconds to obtain an optimal solution to this problem. When the decision is to open two plants and three warehouses, the optimal solution is to open plants 1 and 5 while open warehouses 3, 5 and 10. The warehouse load ratio for node 6 drops to 32.5 per cent for product 1 and 59 per cent for product 2 while for node 3 it drops to 18.1 per cent for product 1 and 40 per cent for product 2 to accommodate open warehouse in node 10. The fixed cost ratio increases to 25.91 per cent. The FLITNET model also chooses the best transportation alternative to transport products from manufacturing plants to warehouses. The operations manager can use these results to not only choose the best location for plants and warehouses, but also pick the best mode for transporting multiple products from the open plants to open warehouses which in turn is distributed to customer retail outlets. The CPU time (the time it takes to obtain an optimal solution: this includes generation, compilation and execution times) does not change dramatically and we can obtain optimal solutions well within 9 seconds. Table I highlights the value of the FLITNET model through provision of warehouse load ratio and the fixed cost ratios as well as the location of open plants and warehouses. Table II presents optimal solution to the FLITNET model for the second case when demand is generated randomly from a uniform distribution between 5 and 100 units for five products. When the decision is to open three plant and four warehouses, the optimal solution is to open plants at nodes 1 and 4 while warehouses are open at nodes 1, 4, 5 and 6. The model considers a combination of all three transportation modes to ship products from plants to warehouses. When the decision is to open three plants and five warehouses, the model opens plants at nodes 1, 4 and 5 while it opens warehouses at nodes 1, 4, 5, 6 and 8. However, when the decision is to open three plants and six warehouses, the optimal solution is to open plants at nodes 2, 4 and 5 while open warehouses at nodes 1, 2, 4, 5, 6 and 8. The model closes the plant at node 1 and replaces it with a plant at node 2 while we move from a (three plants/five warehouses) scenario to a (three plants/six warehouses) scenario. We present optimal solution to two other cases: Demand ∼ Uniform (200, 500) units for two products in Table III and Demand ∼ Uniform (200, 500) units for five products in Table IV . In both cases, it was cheaper to open six warehouses to distribute products. Total transportation and inventory costs were also at a minimum when the optimal solution was to operate with six warehouses. We compare the total costs with number of open warehouses (keeping the number of plants fixed) in Figure 1 for the FLITNET model. For all the four cases, opening six warehouses produced the lowest optimal total cost. While cases 1 and 3 (customer demand for two types of products) require two plants to be opened, cases 2 and 4 (customer demand for five types of products) require three plants to be opened. The evaluation of strategic changes to an integrated distribution system configuration involves estimation of several cost and benefit measures, including the impact on the amount of cycle stock that is carried in the network. The FLITNET model can help in evaluating the impact of cycle stock, inventory, and transportation cost as we change the number of open warehouses and plants. Table V provides total cycle stock, inventory and transportation costs for all four cases of the problem. Table V confirms the hypothesis that the total cycle stock in the system will not generally change as the number of warehouses increases, since each warehouse has a quantity of cycle stock averaging half a cycle’s time supply for that specific warehouse. Moreover, cycle stock would vary between zero and a full cycle’s time supply when a shipment is received, and averages half a cycle’s time supply. This issue of cycle stock inventory is particularly important when one is considering changes in the distribution configuration. The manager of distribution network operations must consider issues related to facility location, transportation and inventory simultaneously before a decision could be made to decide on an efficient system configuration. Total inventory and transportation cost as a percentage of total optimal cost are also provided for all the four cases of the problem. Total inventory cost remains a constant for each case of the problem when we change the number of open warehouses. In this problem we considered three modes of transportation. Constable and Whybark (1978) argue that a “transportation cost ratio may provide a rational way of determining when organizational separation of the transportation and inventory decisions can be justified”. Langley (1980) concludes that while the magnitude of a constant per‐unit transportation cost will have an impact on the total cost of the inventory policy, it will not have any influence on an order quantity that will minimize the total cost function. We take an alternate route to calculate the total transportation cost. In the integrated model: where 1. ACON( l , r ):non‐negative constant that characterizes transportation mode r which is used to transport product l (in dollars/unit). 2. d ij :Euclidean distance from plant i to warehouse j . This cost is proportional to the transportation mode used, the total quantity of products transported from open plants to warehouses and the distance between manufacturing plants and warehouses. In Table V , the total transportation cost as a percentage of total optimal cost is compared to the number of open warehouses keeping the number of open plants as a constant. For a fixed number of open plants, when the decision is to increase the number of open warehouses, there is some added flexibility in distributing the multiple commodities from the set of open plants to the open warehouses. This leads to some decrease in the total transportation costs. The operations manager can perform such sensitivity analysis on the input parameters and make decisions based on the outcome of the location, inventory and transportation parameters. From the decision support system that was created for the model, a geographical display for one set of results of the FLITNET model is presented in Figure 2 . Demand outlets were generated from a uniform distribution between (0, 100) units for two products (case 1). The optimal solution was to open two plants and five warehouses. Plants are open at points 1 and 4 while warehouses are opened at points 1, 2, 3, 5 and 10. Open plant 1 ships products to open warehouses 1, 3 and 10 while plant 4 ships products to open warehouses 2, 3 and 5. The figure also illustrates the distribution pattern of the products from warehouses to demand outlets. This figure can provide more intuition to the distribution strategy between plants and warehouses and warehouses and customer zones.