Within the framework of a global French program oriented towards the
development of renewable energies, Martinique Island (Lesser Antilles, France)
has been extensively investigated (from 2012 to 2013) through an integrated
multi-methods approach, with the aim to define precisely the potential
geothermal ressources, previously highlighted (Sanjuan et al., 2003). Amongst
the common investigation methods deployed, we carried out three magnetotelluric
(MT) surveys located above three of the most promising geothermal fields of
Martinique, namely the Anses d'Arlet, the Montagne Pel{\'e}e and the Pitons du
Carbet prospects. A total of about 100 MT stations were acquired showing single
or multi-dimensional behaviors and static shift effects. After processing data
with remote reference, 3-D MT inversions of the four complex elements of MT
impedance tensor without pre-static-shift correction, have been performed for
each sector, providing three 3-D resistivity models down to about 12 to 30 km
depth. The sea coast effect has been taken into account in the 3-D inversion
through generation of a 3-D resistivity model including the bathymetry around
Martinique from the coast up to a distance of 200 km. The forward response of
the model is used to calculate coast effect coefficients that are applied to
the calculated MT response during the 3-D inversion process for comparison with
the observed data. 3-D resistivity models of each sector, which are inherited
from different geological history, show 3-D resistivity distribution and
specificities related to its volcanological history. In particular, the
geothermal field related to the Montagne Pel{\'e}e strato-volcano, is
characterized by a quasi ubiquitous conductive layer and quite monotonic
typical resistivity distribution making interpretation difficult in terms of
geothermal targets. At the opposite, the resistivity distribution of Anse
d'Arlet area is radically different and geothermal target is thought to be
connected to a not so deep resistive intrusion elongated along a main
structural axis. Beside these interesting deep structures, we demonstrate,
after analyzing the results of the recent heliborne TEM survey covering the
whole Martinique, that surface resistivity distribution obtained from 3-D
inversion reproduce faithfully the resistivity distribution observed by TEM. In
spite of a very different sampling scale, this comparison illustrates the
ability of 3-D MT inversion to take into account and reproduce static shift
effects in the sub-surface resistivity distribution.