Microtubules, major elements of the cell skeleton are, most of the time, well
organized in vivo, but they can also show self-organizing behaviors in time
and/or space in purified solutions in vitro. Theoretical studies and models
based on the concepts of collective dynamics in complex systems,
reaction-diffusion processes and emergent phenomena were proposed to explain
some of these behaviors. In the particular case of microtubule spatial
self-organization, it has been advanced that microtubules could behave like
ants, self-organizing by 'talking to each other' by way of hypothetic (because
never observed) concentrated chemical trails of tubulin that are expected to be
released by their disassembling ends. Deterministic models based on this idea
yielded indeed like-looking spatio-temporal self-organizing behaviors.
Nevertheless the question remains of whether microscopic tubulin trails
produced by individual or bundles of several microtubules are intense enough to
allow microtubule self-organization at a macroscopic level. In the present
work, by simulating the diffusion of tubulin in microtubule solutions at the
microscopic scale, we measure the shape and intensity of tubulin trails and
discuss about the assumption of microtubule self-organization due to the
production of chemical trails by disassembling microtubules. We show that the
tubulin trails produced by individual microtubules or small microtubule arrays
are very weak and not elongated even at very high reactive rates. Although the
variations of concentration due to such trails are not significant compared to
natural fluctuations of the concentration of tubuline in the chemical
environment, the study shows that heterogeneities of biochemical composition
can form due to microtubule disassembly. They could become significant when
produced by numerous microtubule ends located in the same place. Their possible
formation could play a role in certain conditions of reaction. In particular,
it gives a mesoscopic basis to explain the collective dynamics observed in
excitable microtubule solutions showing the propagation of concentration waves
of microtubules at the millimeter scale, although we doubt that individual
microtubules or bundles can behave like molecular ants.