  A tabu search heuristic procedure is developed to solve the uncapacitated facility location problem. Tabu search is used to guide the solution process when evolving from one solution to another. A move is defined to be the opening or closing of a facility. The net cost change resulting from a candidate move is used to measure the attractiveness of the move. After a move is made, the net cost change of a candidate move is updated from its old value. Updating, rather than re-computing, the net cost changes substantially reduces computation time needed to solve a problem when the problem is not excessively large. Searching only a small subset of the feasible solutions that contains the optimal solution, the procedure is computationally very efficient. A computational experiment is conducted to test the performance of the procedure and computational results are reported. The procedure can easily find optimal or near optimal solutions for benchmark test problems from the literature. For randomly generated test problems, this tabu search procedure not only obtained solutions completely dominating those obtained with other heuristic methods recently published in the literature but also used substantially less computation time. Therefore, this tabu search procedure has advantage over other heuristic methods in both solution quality and computation speed. Keywords Facility location ; Tabu search ; Heuristics ; Optimization The success or failure of business and public facilities depends in a large part on their locations. Effective supply chain management has led to increased profit, increased market share, reduced operating cost, and improved customer satisfaction for many businesses. One strategic decision in supply chain management is facility location [1] . Due to their strategic nature, facility location problems have been widely studied by researchers and practitioners over many years [2] , [3]  and  [4] . There are a variety of models representing a variety of facility location problems [3] , [5] , [6] , [7] , [8]  and  [9] . Most of these problems are combinatorial in nature. Therefore, exact algorithms exist only for small problems and heuristic procedures have to be used for large practical problems. In this study, a tabu search (TS) heuristic procedure is developed to solve the uncapacitated facility location (UFL) problem. In a UFL problem, a fixed cost is associated with the establishment of each facility and a fixed cost is associated with the opening and using of each road from a customer to a facility. The objective of a UFL problem is to decide where to locate the facilities and which roads to use so as to minimize the total cost. The TS metaheuristic [10] , [11] , [12] , [13]  and  [14] is used in the procedure to guide the search process when moving from one solution to another in order to find good solutions. The procedure is computationally very efficient because the solution space being searched is only a small subset of all feasible solutions that contains the optimal solution. In the procedure, a move is the opening or closing of a facility. Net cost changes resulting from candidate moves are used to measure the attractiveness of the moves. Net cost changes are updated from their old values after a move is made. Steps are developed to update net cost changes and theoretical foundation supporting these steps is developed. Updating, rather than re-computing, net cost changes substantially reduces the computation time needed to solve a problem as long as the problem is not excessively large. The performance of the procedure is tested through computational experiments using test problems both from the literature and randomly generated. Computational results show that the TS procedure can easily find optimal or near optimal solutions for all test problems with known optimal solutions. With randomly generated test problems, the TS procedure found solutions better than those found by competitive heuristic methods recently published in the literature. The rest of this paper is organized as follows. The UFL problem is briefly discussed in Section 1 . The TS heuristic procedure is developed in Section 2 . The computation and update of net cost changes are described in Section 3 . An example demonstrating the computation and update of net cost changes is presented in Section 4 . Computational results are reported in Section 5 . Conclusions and further remarks are given in Section 6 .