Password: This paper provides a review on recent efforts and development in multi-criteria location problems in three categories including bi-objective, multi-objective and multi-attribute problems and their solution methods. Also, it provides an overview on various criteria used. While there are a few chapters or sections in different location books related to this topic, we have not seen any comprehensive review papers or book chapter that can cover it. We believe this paper can be used as a complementary and updated version. Keywords Location ; Bi-objective ; Multi-objective ; Multi-attribute ; Criteria 1. Introduction Decision making is one of the main abilities of human being that differs them from other creatures. Now, decision making and analysis is an important part of management sciences, and it is perhaps as old as history of mankind. In many real-world problems, the decision maker likes to pursue more than one target or consider more than one factor or measure. Such a desire transforms the decision making problem to a multi-objective decision making (MODM) problem or a multi-attribute decision making (MADM) problem. These groups of problems all come together in one category, named multi-criteria decision making (MCDM) problems. There are many decision making problems whose information is spatial (geographical). These kinds of decisions are called location decisions. Location decisions are now a major part of operations research and management science (named location science). Facility location, location science and location models are terms that can be used instead. Facility location is a branch of operations research related to locating or positioning at least a new facility among several existing facilities in order to optimize (minimize or maximize) at least one objective function (like cost, profit, revenue, travel distance, service, waiting time, coverage and market shares). From an application point of view there is no limitation for location science. Many application areas including public facilities, private facilities, military environment, business areas and national and international scopes can be seen in the related literature. 1.1. Location history Now facility location can be considered a one-hundred year old science. Even though it is old, we believe that applications of these models are getting more attractive. Some experts believe that facility location as a classic science, has originated from Pierre de Fermat, Evagelistica Torricelli (a student of Galileo), and Battista Cavallieri. It is said that these people independently proposed the basic Euclidean spatial median problem early in the seventeenth century [1] ; but formally it is accepted by all scientists that Alfred Weber’s book [2] is the most important starting point in the history of location science. However, during the last 35 years, several comprehensive books in this area have been written. Interested readers can refer to these books to find out more about usual facility location models: Handler and Mirchandani [3] , Love et al. [4] , Mirchandani and Francis [5] , Francis et al. [6] , Daskin [7] , Drezner [8] , Drezner [9] , Drezner and Hamacher [10] , Nickel and Puerto [11] , Church and Murray [12] and, Farahani and Hekmatfar [13] . 1.2. MCDM Although location science has a long history in single criterion location problems, it seems that since the introduction of multi-criteria decision making to management sciences, this concept has been implemented in location problems. Since this paper is focusing on multi-criteria location models we also present a very short description of MCDM concepts. We consider the MCDM techniques as a combination of the MADM and the MODM techniques. In the MADM there is usually a limited number of predetermined alternatives. These alternatives satisfy each objective in a specified level and the decision maker (DM) selects the best solution (or solutions) among all alternatives, according to the priority of each objective and the interaction between them. There are many techniques which are used to tackle the MADM problems. The most popular ones are as follows: dominant, maximin, maximax, conjunctive method, disjunctive method, lexicographic method, elimination by aspects, permutation method, linear assignment method, simple additive weighting (SAW), hierarchical additive weighting, elimination and choice expressing reality (ELECTRE), technique for order preference by similarity to ideal solution) (TOPSIS), hierarchical tradeoffs, linear programming techniques for multidimensional analysis of preference (LINMAP), interactive SAW method and MDS with the ideal point [14] . The MODM techniques are trying to design the best alternative by considering the various interactions within the design constraints which best satisfy the DM by way of attaining some acceptable levels of a set of objectives. The MODM problems have various components, but the common characteristics of them are as follows: • A set of quantifiable objectives. • A set of well defined constraints. • A process of obtaining some trade-off information. There are many techniques which are used to tackle the MODM problems. The most popular ones are as follows: global criterion method, utility function, metric L-P methods, bounded objective method, lexicographic method, goal programming (GP), goal attainment method, method of Geoffrion, interactive GP, surrogate worth trade-off, method of satisfactory goals, method of Zionts–Wallenius, the methods as step method (STEM) and related method, sequential multi-objective problem solving (SEMOPS) and sequential information generator for multi-objective problems (SIGMOP) method, method of displaced ideal, goal programming STEM (GPSTEM), method of Steuer, parametric method, C-constraint method and adaptive search method [15] , [16] , [17] , [18]  and  [19] . However, in solving the MODM problems, without considering the used technique, investigating the following general steps are needed: • Conflicting objectives: It is in the nature of the MODM problems to have conflicting objectives. • Efficient solution: An ideal solution to a MODM problem is one that results in the optimum value of each of the objective functions simultaneously. An efficient solution (also known as non-inferior solution or non-dominated solution) is one, in which no one objective function can be improved without a simultaneous detriment to the other objectives [19] . • A preferred solution: A preferred solution (also known as the best solution) is an efficient solution, which is chosen by the decision maker (DM) as the final decision. We have used some of simple MODM methods and some sensibility analysis to choose a preferred solution. There are different approaches to solve multi-objective optimization problems. These approaches can be divided into three categories: • “Classical approaches” try to convert the multi-objective problem into a single objective problem and optimize new single objective problem. • In “Pareto optimal approaches” a set of solutions will be resulted when the problem is solved. • If the problem in the first and the second category are complex then those can be solved using evolutionary algorithms. Some of these approaches are multi-objective genetic algorithm (MOGA) [20] , (non-dominate sorting genetic algorithm) (NSGA I 1 ) [21] and fast non-dominate sorting genetic algorithm (NSGA II 2 ) [22] . There are other special purpose approaches for solving complex MODM problems like: vector evaluated genetic algorithm (VEGA) [23] , lexicographic ordering, weight min-max method and distance method. During the last decade, multi-objective combinatorial optimization (MOCO) (e.g. [24]  and  [19] provides an adequate framework to tackle various multi-criteria problems. Interested readers are referred to Cohon [25] , Szidarovszky et al. [18] and Hwang and Masud [17] to learn more about pure MODM and referred to Hwang and Yoon [14] to gain knowledge about pure MADM. 1.3. Location objectives Apart from being single criterion or multi-criteria, maybe readers are interested to know about various objective functions in facility location problems. Eiselt and Laporte [26] is one of the best references in classifications of objectives in location models. On the other hand, the objectives that are usually considered in location problems can be different. Some of them can be as follows: • Minimizing the total setup cost. • Minimizing the longest distance from the existing facilities. • Minimizing fixed cost. • Minimizing total annual operating cost. • Maximizing service. • Minimizing maximum time/ distance traveled. • Minimizing the number of located facilities. • Maximizing responsiveness.