Many models exist in the scientific literature for determining indoor
daylighting values. They are classified in three categories: numerical,
simplified and empirical models. Nevertheless, each of these categories of
models are not convenient for every application. Indeed, the numerical model
requires high calculation time; conditions of use of the simplified models are
limited, and experimental models need not only important financial resources
but also a perfect control of experimental devices (e.g. scale model), as well
as climatic characteristics of the location (e.g. in situ experiment). In this
article, a new model based on a combination of multiple simplified models is
established. The objective is to improve this category of model. The
originality of our paper relies on the coupling of several simplified models of
indoor daylighting calculations. The accuracy of the simulation code,
introduced into CODYRUN software to simulate correctly indoor illuminance, is
then verified. Besides, the software consists of a numerical building
simulation code, developed in the Physics and Mathematical Engineering
Laboratory for Energy and Environment (P.I.M.E.N.T) at the University of
Reunion. Initially dedicated to the thermal, airflow and hydrous phenomena in
the buildings, the software has been completed for the calculation of indoor
daylighting. New models and algorithms - which rely on a semi-detailed approach
- will be presented in this paper. In order to validate the accuracy of the
integrated models, many test cases have been considered as analytical,
inter-software comparisons and experimental comparisons. In order to prove the
accuracy of the new model - which can properly simulate the illuminance - a
confrontation between the results obtained from the software (developed in this
research paper) and the major made at a given place is described in details. A
new statistical indicator to appreciate the margins of errors - named RSD
(Reliability of Software Degrees) - is also be defined.