Password: We examine the feasibility polyhedron of the uncapacitated hub location problem (UHL) with multiple allocation, which has applications in the fields of air passenger and cargo transportation, telecommunication and postal delivery services. In particular we determine the dimension and derive some classes of facets for this polyhedron. We develop a general rule about lifting facets from the uncapacitated facility location problem to UHL. Using this lifting procedure we derive a new class of facets for UHL which dominates the inequalities in the original formulation. Thus we obtain a new formulation of the UHL whose constraints are all facet-defining. Keywords Integer programming ; Hub location ; Facility location ; Valid inequality ; Facet 1. Introduction The uncapacitated hub location (UHL) problem with multiple allocation involves the so-called transshipment or hub nodes, which collect commodities from their origin, transfer them to other hubs and distribute them to their final destination. The problem is to locate the hub nodes and to route the commodities through these hubs. As we allow multiple allocation, commodities having the same origin (or destination) may be allocated to different hubs. The objective is to minimize the total costs, which consist of transportation costs per unit and fixed charge costs for establishing hubs at nodes, under the constraint that all commodities have to be routed via one or two hub nodes. As an example, we consider the hub-and-spoke network given in Fig. 1 . Filled circles denote hub nodes, white ones origin and destination nodes. Three commodities are routed from their origin to their destination via some hubs. The transportation paths of these three commodities are described by dash-dotted, dashed, and solid arrows, respectively. Additional edges in the hub level are marked by thin lines. While commodity 1 is transported via only one hub, both commodities 2 and 3 use two hubs. As commodities 1 and 2 in Fig. 1 share the same origin node, but are routed through different hubs, we have multiple allocation in this example. Fig. 1.  Example for a hub network (multiple allocation). During the last years, different kinds of hub location problems have been discussed in the literature (for an overview of some basic problems see [2]  and  [3] ). Most applications of hub location problems concern air passenger and cargo transportation, telecommunication and postal delivery services. The main types of problems which are dealt with are p -hub location, where the number of hubs to be located is fixed to p (see e.g. [21] ), and fixed charge hub location problems, where this number is part of the optimization problem, but a certain fixed cost has to be paid for establishing a hub facility (see e.g. [2]  and  [10] ). Furthermore one distinguishes between single allocation (see e.g. [11]  and  [19] ) and multiple allocation (see e.g. [12] ) problems. In the single allocation case all commodities having the same origin (or destination, respectively) must be allocated to the same first (or second, respectively) hub, while in multiple allocation they can be allocated to different hubs. Very little is known about the polyhedral aspect of hub location problems. For the single allocation problem with two fixed hub locations, the allocation part can be written as a linear program and therefore solved in polynomial time [22] , while in case of three fixed hub locations, the allocation part is NP-hard and some facets of the feasibility polytope were computed [23] . UHL is NP-hard because it generalizes the uncapacitated facility location problem (UFL) which is known to be NP-hard (see e.g. [8]  and  [15] ). In detail, if the transportation costs of a UHL problem are only dependent of the collecting and distributing, but not of the transfer part of each origin-destination path, every origin and destination node is allocated to its nearest hub node. Thus, in this case UHL reduces to UFL. The remainder of this paper is organized as follows: in Section 2 we will present the mixed integer formulation of UHL. In Section 3 we compare UHL with UFL. We determine the dimension of the feasibility polytope of UHL and develop a general rule how facets from UFL can be lifted to obtain (new) facets of UHL. Some of these new facets can be used for a tighter and more compact formulation of UHL, which is presented in Section 4 . In case there are only two potential hub nodes we prove that the polyhedron of the LP relaxation of this new formulation has only integer vertices. Finally we give some conclusions in Section 5 . 2. Mixed integer formulation of UHL Let be a set of commodities and be a set of potential hub nodes. For every commodity and every ordered pair of hubs let C ijk denote the transportation costs for routing commodity k via hubs i and j (in this direction). Moreover, F j represents the fixed costs for establishing node as a hub node.