Core helium burning is the dominant source of energy of extreme horizontal
branch stars, as the hydrogen envelope is too small to contribute to the
nuclear energy output. The evolution of each mass in the HR diagram occurs
along vertical tracks that, when the core helium is consumed, evolve to higher
Teff and then to the white dwarf stage. The larger is the mass, the smaller is
the Teff of the models, so that the zero age horizontal branch (ZAHB) is
"horizontal". In this paper we show that, if the helium mass fraction (Y) of
the envelope is larger than Y~0.5, the shape of the tracks changes completely:
the hydrogen burning becomes efficient again also for very small envelope
masses, thanks to the higher molecular weight and to the higher temperatures of
the hydrogen shell. The larger is Y, the smaller is the envelope mass that
provides strong H-shell burning. These tracks have a curled shape, are located
at a Teff following the approximate relation Teff=8090+ 32900xY, and become
more luminous for larger envelope masses. Consequently, the ZAHB of the very
high helium models is "vertical" in the HR diagram. Synthetic models based on
these tracks nicely reproduce the location and shape of the "blue hook" in the
globular cluster wCen, best fit by a very high Teff (bluer) sequence with
Y=0.80 and a cooler (redder) one with Y=0.65. Although these precise values of
Y may depend on the color-Teff conversions, we know that the helium content of
the progenitors of the blue hook stars can not be larger than Y~0.38-0.40, if
they are descendants of the cluster blue main sequence. Consequently, this
interpretation implies that all these objects must in fact be progeny of the
blue main sequence, but they have all suffered further deep mixing, that has
largely and uniformly increased their surface helium abundance, during the red
giant branch evolution. A late helium flash can not be the cause of this deep
mixing, as the models we propose have hydrogen rich envelopes much more massive
than those required for a late flash. We discuss different models of deep
mixing proposed in the literature, and conclude that our interpretation of the
blue hook can not be ruled out, but requires a much deeper investigation before
it can be accepted.