Password: In this paper we introduce new network design problems. A network of potential links is given. Each link can be either constructed or not at a given cost. Also, each constructed link can be constructed either as a one-way or two-way link. The objective is to minimize the total construction and transportation costs. Two different transportation costs are considered: (i) traffic is generated between any pair of nodes and the transportation cost is the total cost for the users and (ii) demand for service is generated at each node and a facility is to be located on a node to satisfy the demand. The transportation cost in this case is the total cost for a round trip from the facility to each node and back. We will consider two options in regard to the links between nodes. They can either be two-way only, or mixed, with both two-way and one-way (in either direction) allowed. When these options are combined with the two objective functions, four basic problems are created. These problems are solved by a descent algorithm, simulated annealing, tabu search, and a genetic algorithm. Extensive computational results are presented. Network design problems have received increasing attention in the literature. General network design issues are discussed in Chiou (1999) , Friesz et al. (1998) , Mitchel and Smith (2001) , Solanki et al. (1998) , and Yang (1998) . The network design-location interface is discussed in Melkote and Daskin (2001) and Pardalos and Du (1998) . Our problem is as follows: a network with nodes and links (possibly only potential) is given. One may wish to build only part of the network in order to save construction costs while providing reasonable service to the users. Another situation is the possibility of designating a link to be a “pedestrian mall” by not allowing traffic through that link. Some users may have to travel on longer routes but the extra profit for the city from the pedestrian mall may be higher than the extra cost endured by the users. When the cost of the links is much higher than the cost of travel, then cost of travel can be ignored and the solution is the minimum spanning tree. In a tree there is only one way to get from a node to another node. When construction cost is negligible, all the links should be built (because additional links can only improve distances) and users apply the shortest path to get from one node to another node. When the two types of cost are balanced, the solution will be in between these two extremes. One would then build more than the minimum spanning tree but not necessarily all the links. We term this problem the “two-way link (TWL) problem”. We can add an additional option to this scenario. Some of the links may be built as one-way links. Traffic on a one-way link is faster than on a two-way link by a given factor, and travel in the opposite direction is not allowed. We term this problem the “mixed link (ML) problem”. We thus have two decisions to make: 1. which links to build and (for ML problems) 2. whether to construct a link as a one-way link, and in which direction. Various objectives can be applied for these network design problems. In this paper we consider two objectives for the transportation cost: Traffic flow: A volume of user traffic is specified between pairs of nodes. Users employ the shortest path to get from their origin to their destination. The transportation cost is the total travel time for all users converted to cost. Facility location: A facility must be constructed to serve the nodes of the network. The demand at each node is given. The transportation cost is the product of the demand at a node and the round-trip distance from the facility to a node and back to the facility converted to cost. Note that a round-trip distances are essential for the model because the route from the facility to the demand point may be different from the route back. The case when all the links are available and the possible design of links as one-way links is considered was proposed in Drezner and Wesolowsky (1997) for the traffic flow problem, and in Drezner and Wesolowsky (submitted for publication) for the facility location problem. These are the right models if the network is already built and the decision maker can only re-design some links to be one-way links to improve network performance. This is a special case of our present formulation, when the link construction cost is negligible and there is no cost saving by not constructing links. 2. Problems formulation We present all four variants of the problem in one general model. be the number of links. Link j is defined by two nodes k 1 ( j ), k 2 ( j ); Dj be the length of link j when it is a two-way link, for j =1,…, m ; α be the factor by which a link’s length is multiplied when it is designed as a one-way link (used only in ML problems); zdj be an indicator for the existence and directionality of link j . For d =1,2; j =1,…, m z dj for d =1,2 define the design of link j . d =1 is the direction from k 1 ( j ) to k 2 ( j ), and d =2 is the other direction. z dj =1 if the link is open in direction d and z dj =0 if not. For example, z 1 j = z 2 j =1 means a two-way link, and z 1 j = z 2 j =0 means that the link is not constructed at all. Note that d can be eliminated from the notation for TWL problems; Z be a matrix of dimensions 2 by m for ML problems (and is a vector of length m for TWL problems). The elements of Z are { z dj } for d =1,2; j =1,…, m ; dik ( Z ) be the shortest distance from node i to node k for a network design Z , for i , k =1,…, n ; Cj ( Z ) be the construction cost of link j for a network design Z . The construction cost of link j is a function of z 1 j , z 2 j . For the traffic flow problem: wik is the cost per unit distance for the traffic from node i to node k (it is proportional to the volume of traffic from node i to node k ). For the facility location problem: wi is the demand at node i translated to a cost per unit distance; X is the location of the new facility. As shown by Hakimi (1964) this location must be one of the nodes. f is the node at which the facility is located. The objective for the traffic flow problem is to minimize equation ( 1 ) The objective for the facility location problem is to minimize equation ( 2 ) Note that for symmetric traffic flow problems (i.e. w ij = w ji ) and any facility location problem, the value of the objective function for both formulations is the same if all one-way links are reversed in direction. This is important for the construction of the genetic algorithm. Every solution which contains one-way links represents two solutions with the one-way links reversed in the second solution. 3. Analysis There are 2 2 m possible network designs for ML problems and 2 m possible network designs for TWL problems. The value of the objective function (1) or (2) can be easily calculated for each of these network designs. For ML problems, the first part can be calculated by the procedure proposed in Drezner and Wesolowsky (1997) for the traffic flow problem and in Drezner and Wesolowsky (submitted for publication) for the facility location problem. For TWL problems the calculation is even simpler because it is a special case of ML problems. The construction cost is easily calculated. The problem turns into a combinatorial problem of finding the best design Z . For simplicity of presentation in the rest of the paper, we denote by F ( Z ) either F T ( Z ) or F F ( Z ). We solve the problems heuristically by a descent algorithm, simulated annealing, tabu search, and a genetic algorithm. For a review of these heuristic algorithms the reader is referred to the book chapter by Salhi (1998) . 4. The heuristic algorithms The heuristic algorithms (except for the genetic algorithm) are based on the concept of a neighborhood. For each design Z we define neighboring designs which constitute the neighborhood. We define a neighbor to be different from the design Z in one decision variable. A move from Z to a neighbor Z ′ is defined as the variable z dj which is different in Z ′ . 4.1. The neighborhood