We use distributed computing tools to provide a new perspective on the
behavior of cooperative biological ensembles. We introduce the Ants Nearby
Treasure Search (ANTS) problem, a generalization of the classical cow-path
problem, which is relevant for collective foraging in animal groups. In the
ANTS problem, k identical (probabilistic) agents, initially placed at some
central location, collectively search for a treasure in the two-dimensional
plane. The treasure is placed at a target location by an adversary and the goal
is to find it as fast as possible as a function of both k and D, where D is the
distance between the central location and the target. This is biologically
motivated by cooperative, central place foraging, such as performed by ants
around their nest. In this type of search there is a strong preference to
locate nearby food sources before those that are further away. We focus on
trying to find what can be achieved if communication is limited or altogether
absent. Indeed, to avoid overlaps agents must be highly dispersed making
communication difficult. Furthermore, if the agents do not commence the search
in synchrony, then even initial communication is problematic. This holds, in
particular, with respect to the question of whether the agents can communicate
and conclude their total number, k. It turns out that the knowledge of k by the
individual agents is crucial for performance. Indeed, it is a straightforward
observation that the time required for finding the treasure is \Omega(D+
D^2/k), and we show in this paper that this bound can be matched if the agents
have knowledge of k up to some constant approximation. We present a tight bound
for the competitive penalty that must be paid, in the running time, if the
agents have no information about k. Specifically, this bound is slightly more
than logarithmic in the number of agents. In addition, we give a lower bound
for the setting in which the agents are given some estimation of k. Informally,
our results imply that the agents can potentially perform well without any
knowledge of their total number k, however, to further improve, they must use
non trivial information regarding k. Finally, we propose a uniform algorithm
that is both efficient and extremely simple, suggesting its relevance for
actual biological scenarios.