  There are substantial number of exact and heuristic solution methods proposed for solving the facilities location problems. This paper develops an algorithm to solve the capacitated, multi-commodity, multi-period (dynamic), multi-stage facility location problem. The literature on such composite facility location problem is still sparse. The proposed algorithm consists of two parts: in the first part branch and bound is used to generate a list of candidate solutions for each period and then dynamic programming is used to find the optimal sequence of configurations over the multi-period planning horizon. Bounds commonly known in the location literature as delta and omega are used extensively to effectively reduce the total number of transshipment subproblems needed to be solved. The proposed algorithm is particularly effective when the facility reopening and closing costs are relatively significant in the multi-period problem. An example problem is included to illustrate the proposed solution procedure. Scope and purpose The literature on the facilities location problem is extensive with a wide variety of solution methods for addressing these problems. In this paper, an algorithm is proposed to solve the capacitated, multi-commodity, multi-period (dynamic), multi-stage facility location problem. The literature on such composite facility location problem is still sparse. We develop the decision rules to be employed in this algorithm and describe their rationale. Through an illustrative example, we offer insights on the solution algorithm and how it can be implemented to solve the composite problem. Keywords Facility location ; Branch and bound algorithm 1. Introduction In many industrial applications concerning capacity planning, different commodities are manufactured and delivered directly from the factories, at discounted bulk delivery rates, or via warehouses or distribution centers (henceforth referred to as facilities) to satisfy the customer demands [1] . A majority of these problems seek to minimize the total distribution costs: both inbound (from factories to facilities) and outbound costs (from facilities to demand points) plus the facility operating costs. Since the factories are assumed to be preexisting, the problem then becomes one of selecting the facility locations from among all pre-selected potential sites such that the total distribution cost is minimized. Problems of this type have been known as multi-stage facility location problems. Once the planning horizon is extended to more than a single period, the location problem is dynamic (in contrast to a static problem which has only one period). The dynamic facility location problem is generally regarded as the essence of capacity expansion, and is very significant for companies facing changing market conditions or expecting relevant costs to change over time. This problem involves decisions on how many facilities to open, where to locate them, and how to allocate the production of each facility, in each period, to a list of known demand centers. These decisions are made for a predetermined planning horizon in which the variables included in the problem can change. The objective is to locate facilities in response to expected changes in demand from customers over a planning horizon of T periods. The literature on dynamic facility location problem (DFLP) is substantial. Ballou [2] was the first to address the dynamic location problem and suggested a heuristic algorithm for its solution. A number of exact as well as heuristic solution methods have been proposed in earlier papers. Erlenkotter [3] , Aikens [4] , Krarup et al. [5] , Francis et al. [6] and Brandeau and Chiu [7] provided comparative studies and surveys of these methods. Ballou [2] , Wesolowsky [8] , Wesolowsky and Truscott [9] , Warzawski [10] , Sweeney and Tatham [11] and Hormozi and Khumawala [12] integrated mixed-integer programming and dynamic programming for solving the DFLP. In these studies, first single-period solutions are generated for each period and then dynamic programming is used to find the optimal sequence for the complete planning horizon. Van Roy and Erlenkotter [13] developed a dual approach for the uncapacitated DFLP. Shulman [14] described an optimization algorithm for solving the dynamic capacitated facility location problem based on the Lagrangean relaxation technique. Kelly and Marucheck [15] proposed a method based on extensions of simplification rules found in Khumawala's [16]  and  [17] single-period model, and then applied Bender's decomposition, by partitioning the time horizon into shorter intervals. The use of simplification rules to establish bounds for facility location problems has been successfully applied since Efroymson and Ray [18] , and later improved by Khumawala [16] . Khumawala also coined the terms “delta” and “omega” (D&O) for the simplification rules to fix a facility to be “open” or “closed”, respectively. Since then, the D&O rules have been successfully applied to various extensions of the facility location problem [16] , [17] , [19] , [20] , [21]  and  [22] . There have been several studies on multi-commodity facility location problem. Warszawski [10] proposed a branch and bound algorithm and a heuristic solution procedure for solving the multi-commodity facility location problem. Geoffrion and Graves [1] provided a solution procedure based on Bender's decomposition and applied it to a real situation for a major food company. Neebe and Khumawala [21] used the delta, omega simplification rules adjusted for the multi-commodity case. Barnhart and Sheffi [23] presented a primal–dual, heuristic solution approach for large-scale multi-commodity network flow problems. Crainic [24] described a dual-ascent-based approach for solving simple multi-commodity location problems with balancing requirements. Aggarwal [25] proposed a general heuristic procedure for multi-commodity integer flows which can be utilized for solving multi-commodity facility location problems. Lee [26] developed a general model for a capacitated facility location problem which incorporates the multi-product, multi-type facility and proposed an optimal solution algorithm based on Bender's decomposition technique. Lee [27]  and  [28] extended a standard capacitated facility location problem to a generalization of multi-product, multi-type capacitated facility location problem with a choice of facility type and presented an effective algorithm based on cross decomposition. The algorithm unifies Bender's decomposition and Lagrangean relaxation into a single framework. Pirkul [29] developed an efficient heuristic procedure for solving the multi-commodity, multi-plant capacitated facility location problem. All these papers have attempted to investigate the facility location problem from two perspectives; either as a multi-period or as a multi-commodity facility location problem. In this paper, we propose to solve the more comprehensive facility location problem: capacitated, multi-commodity, multi-period (dynamic), multi-stage facility location problem. It is based on the solution framework of Sweeney and Tatham [11] , together with the use of D&O rules to effectively reduce the total number of transshipment subproblems that need to be solved. A branch and bound approach is adopted to generate the list of candidate solutions for each period, as opposed to the specialized Bender's partitioning procedure with canonical cuts in Sweeney and Tatham [11] . The rest of this paper is organized as follows. In Section 2 we present the mathematical formulation of the capacitated, multi-stage, multi-commodity dynamic facility location problem. Section 3 provides the development of the algorithm for solving this problem. The fourth section presents an illustrated application, while the last section presents conclusions and suggestions for further research.