BCIN DOCUMENT DISPLAY    Close Document                 Print This Document! Conservation Information Network (BCIN) Author: Sage, J.D. Editor: Marinos, Paul G.; Koukis, George C. Title Article/Chapter: "Thermal microfracturing of marble" Title of Source: Publisher/Distributor: A.A. Balkema Publisher/Distributor City: Rotterdam AATA Number: 26-1370 Volume Number: 2 Date of Publication: 1988 Page Numbers: 1013-1018 Collation: 4 figs., 5 graphs, 3 tables, 3 refs. ISBN: 90-6191-793-X Language Text: English Language Summaries: English;French Meeting Name: International Symposium organized by the Greek National Group of IAEG Meeting Location: Athens Meeting Date: 19880919-19880923 Subject Keywords English: Marble Microfracture Thermal;Marble Surface Deterioration AATA Subject Keywords French: Pierre, marbre; pierre, protection revetement essai; pierre, protection revetement; pierre, protection; pierre, alteration choc thermique Subject Keywords English 2: Stone, marble; stone, protection coating test; stone, protection coating; stone, protection; stone, deterioration thermal shock; ICCROM Abstract: Microfracturing at the surface of marble monuments and structures subjected to thermal stresses is described. Due to microfractures generated along grain boundaries an additional network of flow paths is generated which permits the migration of solutions beneath the surface. Phase changes or dehydration of the solution act to propagate the microfracture network by interaction on the walls of the fracture. Experimental evidence is presented for a medium grained marble which indicates that due to thermal stresses, a) the size of the microfractures increases, b) adsorption of fluids into the flow network increases, and c) flexural strength and elastic modulus decrease. The generation of tensile strains is substantiated by mathematical analysis using the finite element method. Suggestions are presented on the use of surface sealants, in terms of the elastic and thermal properties, for the mitigation of problems associated with the surface deterioration of marble. Originating Institution: AATA Location of Document: MCI;ICCROM ICCROM Shelf: Viii d 667/2 MCI Accession Number: 25777 Record Type: Abstract Literature Type: Monograph : Conference proceedings Bibliographic Level: Analytic Old BCIN Number: 147319 BCIN Number: 93880