With the growing importance of corporate viral marketing campaigns on online
social networks, the interest in studies of influence propagation through
networks is higher than ever. In a viral marketing campaign, a firm initially
targets a small set of pioneers and hopes that they would influence a sizeable
fraction of the population by diffusion of influence through the network. In
general, any marketing campaign might fail to go viral in the first try. As
such, it would be useful to have some guide to evaluate the effectiveness of
the campaign and judge whether it is worthy of further resources, and in case
the campaign has potential, how to hit upon a good pioneer who can make the
campaign go viral. In this paper, we present a diffusion model developed by
enriching the generalized random graph (a.k.a. configuration model) to provide
insight into these questions. We offer the intuition behind the results on this
model, rigorously proved in Blaszczyszyn & Gaurav(2013), and illustrate them
here by taking examples of random networks having prototypical degree
distributions - Poisson degree distribution, which is commonly used as a kind
of benchmark, and Power Law degree distribution, which is normally used to
approximate the real-world networks. On these networks, the members are assumed
to have varying attitudes towards propagating the information. We analyze three
cases, in particular - (1) Bernoulli transmissions, when a member influences
each of its friend with probability p; (2) Node percolation, when a member
influences all its friends with probability p and none with probability 1-p;
(3) Coupon-collector transmissions, when a member randomly selects one of his
friends K times with replacement. We assume that the configuration model is the
closest approximation of a large online social network, when the information
available about the network is very limited. The key insight offered by this
study from a firm's perspective is regarding how to evaluate the effectiveness
of a marketing campaign and do cost-benefit analysis by collecting relevant
statistical data from the pioneers it selects. The campaign evaluation
criterion is informed by the observation that if the parameters of the
underlying network and the campaign effectiveness are such that the campaign
can indeed reach a significant fraction of the population, then the set of good
pioneers also forms a significant fraction of the population. Therefore, in
such a case, the firms can even adopt the naive strategy of repeatedly picking
and targeting some number of pioneers at random from the population. With this
strategy, the probability of them picking a good pioneer will increase
geometrically fast with the number of tries.