  Many real-world systems (such as electric power, transportation, etc.) are multistate systems composed of multistate components. Such systems may be regarded as flow networks whose arcs have independent, discrete, limited and multivalued random capacities. Their reliability can be computed in terms of minimal cut (MC) vectors to level ( d , c ) (named ( d , c )-MCs here), using the probability that d units of flow can be transmitted from the source node to the sink node such that the total maintenance cost of each d -MCs is less than or equal to c . In this study, all MCs are assumed to be known in advance and we developed an intuitive algorithm based on some simple concepts that were found in this study to find the entire ( d , c )-MCs before calculating the reliability value of a network. One example is illustrated to show how all ( d , c )-MCs are generated by the proposed algorithm. Then the reliability of this example is computed. The computational complexity of the proposed algorithm is also analyzed. Keywords Reliability ; Limited-flow network ; ( d , c )-MC/ d -MC/MC ; Max-flow ; Min s − t cut 1. Introduction Multistate systems are more practical and reasonable than binary-state systems in many real-life situations. Therefore, analysis of multistate systems has become a new subject in system reliability. A limited-flow network is a multistate system whose arcs capacities can be regarded as independent, discrete, finite and multiple-valued. For example ( Aven, 1987 ), the gas transportation system is better modelled into a multistate system in which the state is defined as the rate of delivered gas and the state of a compressor station which comprises a certain amount of compressor units in parallel is defined as the number of working units. In recent years, network reliability theory has been applied extensively in many real-world multistate systems such as computer and communication systems ( Aggarwal, 1975 , Samad, 1987 ), power transmission and distribution systems ( Clancy et al., 1983 ), transportation systems ( Aven, 1988 ), oil/gas production system ( Aven, 1987 ), etc. Thus, multistate network reliability plays important roles in our modern society ( Doulliez and Jalnoulle, 1972 ; Colbourn, 1987 ; Yeh (1998) , Yeh (2001a) , Yeh (2001b)  and  Yeh (2001c) ; Jane et al., 1993 ; Xue, 1985 ; Hudson and Kapur (1983)  and  Hudson and Kapur (1985) ; Aven, 1985 ). The reliability evaluation of a multistate system is NP-hard ( Doulliez and Jalnoulle, 1972 ). Several authors have presented some approaches to evaluate the probability that the system capacity level is d in terms of either d -MPs ( Colbourn, 1987 ; Yeh, 1998 ) or d -MCs ( Yeh (1998) , Yeh (2001a) , Yeh (2001b)  and  Yeh (2001c) ). Moreover, most of these works assumed that there is no budget constraint. However, it is highly practical and desirable to evaluate the network reliability for level ( d , c ), i.e., the probability that d units of flow can be transmitted from the source node to the sink node such that the total cost is less than or equal to c . The need for an efficient and intuitive method for multistate network reliability evaluation under maintenance cost constraint thus arises. The purpose of this paper is to develop an intuitive algorithm based on some simple concepts that were found in this study to evaluate multistate network reliability under maintenance cost constraint in terms of all ( d , c )-MCs. The computational complexity of the proposed algorithm is also analyzed. In this paper, the maintenance cost is defined as the overall cost of restoring a network from its failed state back to its original state. It is assumed that the network restoration cost is equal to the sum of restoring each of its components to its original capacity. The components are modelled as arcs, and the cost of restoring each arc is assumed to be the product of a per-unit restoring cost times the size of the capacity reduction. The paper is organized as follows. Section 2 describes the notation, nomenclature and assumptions required. Section 3 contains the formulation for ( d , c )-MCs in a limited-flow network, and some lemmas and theorems are discussed. Section 4 describes the proposed algorithm which is using some simple concepts that are discussed in Section 3 . The computational complexity of the proposed algorithm is also analyzed. Section 5 illustrates how to generate all ( d , c )-MCs in a multistate network through a numerical example using the proposed algorithm. The reliability of this example is also calculated in terms of ( d , c )-MCs by further applying the inclusion–exclusion method. Concluding remarks are given in Section 6 .