  Reducing the transmission time for a flow network is an essential task. The quickest path problem thus arises to find a path with minimum transmission time. More specifically, the capacity of each arc in the network is assumed to be deterministic. Nevertheless, the capacity of each arc is stochastic due to failure, maintenance, etc. Such a network is named as a stochastic-flow network. Hence, the minimum transmission time is not a fixed number. We extend the quickest path problem to a system reliability problem that d units of data are required to be sent from the source to the sink under the time threshold T . The possibility to fulfill such requirements is named as the system reliability. In particular, the data can be transmitted through two disjoint minimal paths simultaneously. A simple algorithm is proposed to generate all lower boundary points for ( d , T ) and the system reliability can be subsequently computed in terms of such points. Moreover, the optimal pair of paths with highest system reliability can be further obtained. Keywords System reliability ; Two minimal paths ; Quickest path ; Time threshold ; Optimal pair In operations research, computer science, networking and other areas, the shortest path problem is one of the well-known and practical problems. When goods or commodities are transmitted from the source s to the sink t through a flow network, it is desirable to adopt the shortest path, least cost path, largest capacity path, shortest delay path, or some combination of multiple criteria ( Ahuja, 1998 ; Bodin et al., 1982 ; Fredman and Tarjan, 1987 ; Golden and Magnanti, 1977 ), which are all variants of the shortest path problem. From the point of view of quality management and decision making, it is an important task to reduce the transmission time through the flow network. Hence, a version of the shortest path problem called the quickest path problem is proposed by Chen and Chin (1990) . This problem is to find a path (named the quickest path) with minimum transmission time to send a given amount of data, where each arc has two attributes; the capacity and the lead time ( Chen and Chin, 1990 ; Hung and Chen, 1992 ; Martins and Santos, 1997 ; Park et al., 2004 ). More specifically, both the capacity and the lead time of each arc are assumed to be deterministic. Several variants of quickest path problems are proposed thereafter; constrained quickest path problem ( Chen and Hung, 1994 ; Chen and Tang, 1998 ), the first k quickest paths problem ( Chen, 1993  and  Chen, 1994 ; Clímaco et al., 2007 ; Pascoal et al., 2005 ), and all-pairs quickest path problem ( Chen and Hung, 1993 ; Lee and Papadopoulou, 1993 ). However, due to failure, partial failure, maintenance, etc, the capacity of each arc is stochastic in many real flow networks such as information systems, telecommunication systems, urban traffic systems, logistics systems, etc. That is, each arc has several possible capacities or states. Such a network is named as a stochastic-flow network ( Jane et al., 1993 ; Lin et al., 1995 ; Lin, 2003 , Lin, 2004 , Lin, 2007a , Lin, 2007b  and  Lin, 2007c ; Xue, 1985 ; Yeh, 2002  and  Yeh, 2008 ). For instance, an information network with arcs standing for the transmission media and nodes standing for stations of servers is a typical stochastic-flow network. In fact, each transmission medium is combined with several physical lines (coaxial cables, fiber optics, etc), and each physical line has only successful or failure state. That implies a transmission medium has several states in which state k means k physical lines are successful. Reliability evaluation applied several real systems have been developed widely ( Das et al., 2007 ; Kleyner and Sandborn, 2008 ; Soepenberg et al., 2008 ). In practice, the transmission request through an information network will be canceled if the transmission time exceeds a specified time threshold. Hence the user's monitor shows an off-line screen in case the request data do not arrive in time. The minimal path (MP), a path from the source to the sink without cycles, is an ordinary medium in network analysis. Bailey and Francis (2008) presented case-study-based evidence to manage information flows for improved value chain performance. The purpose of this paper mainly extends the quickest path problem to a system reliability problem. The data can be transmitted through two disjoint MPs simultaneously in order to reduce the transmission time. We evaluate the probability that the stochastic-flow network sends d units of data from s to t under the time threshold T . Such a probability is named as the system reliability. The remainder of this work is organized as follows. A simple algorithm is first proposed to generate all lower boundary points for ( d , T ), the minimal system state fulfilling the requirements, in Section 2 . The system reliability may be calculated in terms of such points by inclusion–exclusion. An illustrative example in different cases is presented in Section 3 . Computational complexity analysis of the algorithm is shown in Section 4 . Based on Algorithm I, Algorithm II to find the optimal pair of minimal paths with highest system reliability is discussed in Section 5 .