  For the option of “carbon capture and storage”, an integrated assessment in the form of a life cycle analysis and a cost assessment combined with a systematic comparison with renewable energies regarding future conditions in the power plant market for the situation in Germany is done. The calculations along the whole process chain show that CCS technologies emit per kWh more than generally assumed in clean-coal concepts (total CO 2 reduction by 72–90% and total greenhouse gas reduction by 65–79%) and considerable more if compared with renewable electricity. Nevertheless, CCS could lead to a significant absolute reduction of GHG-emissions within the electricity supply system. Furthermore, depending on the growth rates and the market development, renewables could develop faster and could be in the long term cheaper than CCS based plants. Especially, in Germany, CCS as a climate protection option is phasing a specific problem as a huge amount of fossil power plant has to be substituted in the next 15 years where CCS technologies might be not yet available. For a considerable contribution of CCS to climate protection, the energy structure in Germany requires the integration of capture ready plants into the current renewal programs. If CCS retrofit technologies could be applied at least from 2020, this would strongly decrease the expected CO 2 emissions and would give a chance to reach the climate protection goal of minus 80% including the renewed fossil-fired power plants. Keywords Carbon capture and storage (CCS) ; Life cycle assessment ; Prospective LCA ; Renewables ; Electricity 1. Introduction Long-term energy system scenarios usually show a trend towards reducing coal as a source of energy for climate protection reasons. However, coal is the most abundant fossil fuel and many countries have considerable amounts within their borders. The question therefore arises how coal can be used in the future in a more environment-friendly way. In this regard, the option of “carbon capture and storage” (CCS) is discussed. At present there are still many unanswered questions regarding safe, socially compatible as well as ecological and economic sound applications of CCS. A future oriented integrated assessment in form of a life cycle analysis (ecological balance) and a cost assessment combined with a systematic comparison with other measures of CO 2 reduction options (renewable energies, energy efficiency measures) till now has been missing. These questions are examined in an interdisciplinary project considering the situation in Germany, coordinated by the Wuppertal Institute for Climate, Environment and Energy ( WI et al., 2007 ). This paper is organized as follows. Section 2 gives a brief outline of the underlying assumptions (on fossil fuel price development as well as on CCS based and renewable based power plants) and the methodology used for ecological and economic assessment. Section 3 presents the models’ results which are discussed in Section 4 . The paper closes with some conclusions in Section 5 . 2.1. Assessment methods 2.1.1. Life cycle assessment The ecological assessment of technologies and scenarios is done via a life cycle analysis (LCA). An LCA assesses the resource consumptions and emissions occurring along the whole life cycle of a product that means the extraction of raw materials, their processing, the materials’ transport, the manufacture of the product, its use, dismantling, and disposal. While the standards ISO 14.040ff ( Guinée, 2002  and  ISO, 1997 ) state extended requirements on an LCA including an external review process, in this study only a screening LCA is carried out. A full LCA requires more detailed data which are not all available for this future oriented assessment at this state of development. The energy and materials used for production, operation, and dismantling of the considered technologies are modelled in a material and energy flow network using the software Umberto ( IFEU and IFU, 2006 ). As Fig. 1 shows, material flow networks consist of three elements: transitions, places and arrows. Transitions stand for the location of material and energy processes (e.g. the transition Pulverised hard coal-fired power plant ). They play a vital role in material flow networks because material and energy transformations are the source of material and energy flows. Another defining characteristic of material flow networks is the concept of places , represented by circles. Places separate different transitions, which allows a distinct analysis of every transition. Arrows show the path of material and energy flows between transitions and places. Finally, every transition can represent another material and energy (sub-)network which results in a hierarchical structure (see the subnet on level 2, representing the former mentioned power plant transition in detail). Fig. 1.  Material and energy flow network of a coal-fired power plant including CO 2 capture and storage. The framework to carry out this LCA is defined as follows: - The reference year is 2020 when the first commercially operated power plant including CCS is expected to start operation. - The reference area is Germany; that means LCA modules describing power plants and fuel cycles provided in Germany or Europe are used. - The functional unit is chosen as 1 kWh electricity delivered to the power grid. - The impact categories are chosen according to the “UBA-Verfahren” which is an impact assessment method developed by UBA, the German Federal Environmental Agency ( UBA, 1995  and  UBA, 1999 ). In contrary to conventional LCA, this assessment covers technologies lying in the future (called a prospective LCA). To consider future conditions higher efficiencies of the power plants are assumed (see Section 2.2 ). Furthermore, sensitivity analyses on crucial parameters (hard coal methane emissions, leakage rates, CO 2 capture rate, and operation materials) are done. Life cycle assessments of conventional power plants as well as fuel processes and gas pipelines are taken from the Umberto LCA database ( IFEU and IFU, 2006 ) and the ecoinvent database ( Ecoinvent, 2006 ). Future technologies like IGCC and capturing methods are modelled according to literatures ( Briem et al., 2004 , IPCC, 2005  and  Göttlicher, 1999 ). The high voltage direct current (HVDC) transmission system needed for the long distance transport of renewable electricity from wind and solar thermal power plants is modelled in May (2005) , the LCA for wind power plants is taken from Bruno (2003) and Chataignere and Boulch (2003) , the LCA for solar thermal power plants from Viebahn (2004) .