In this article, we study random matrices in a framework based on the
geometric study of partitions and some dualities as the Schur-Weyl's duality.
This gives a unified and simple framework in order to understand families of
random matrices which are invariant by conjugation in law by any group whose
associated tensor category is spanned by partitions. This includes the unitary
groups, the unitary reflection groups, the orthogonal groups, the bistochastic
groups, the hyperoctahedral groups and the symmetric groups. For each choice of
symmetry one can associate a subset of partitions A which allows us to define a
notion of A-free cumulants. Besides, we introduce some observables on random
matrices, namely the P-moments, which generalize the normalized moments. One of
the various by-products we get is that for any family of random matrices which
is invariant by the unitary group, if it converges in non-commutative
distribution then the P-moments of this family converge in expectation. This
implies a simple formula which allows us to compute the asymptotic of any
product of the entries of a family of random matrices which is invariant in law
by conjugation by the unitary group and which converges in non-commutative
distribution. We prove similar results when the family is invariant in law by
conjugation by the orthogonal group. This setting leads to a unified way in
order to define and study new notions of asymptotic freeness associated to each
symmetry. As a by-product, we prove that independence and invariance in law by
conjugation by the bistochastic group implies asymptotic Voiculescu's freeness.
We show that there exist two formulations for each notion of asymptotic
freeness: one uses some modified moments, and the other uses cumulants. In this
setting, a non-commutative central limit theorem is proved and the notion of
asymptotic factorization is also studied. We also show how to inject the theory
of classical probabilities in this new framework: as a consequence, the
classical cumulants can be seen as a special case of the new free cumulants we
defined. At last, we give general theorems about convergence of matrix-valued
additive and multiplicative Levy processes which are invariant in law by
conjugation by the symmetric group. Using these results, we give a unified
point of view on the study of matricial Levy processes on some Lie algebras and
some Lie groups.